  

A New Hope
Prologue

　　Another galaxy, another time. 
　　The Old Republic was the Republic of legend, greater than distance or time.No need to note where it was or whence it came, only to know that´it was theRepublic.
　　Once, under the wise rule of the Senate and the protection of the Jedi Knights,the Republic throve and grew. But as often happens when wealth and power passbeyond the admirable and attain the awesome, then appear those evil ones who havegreed to match.
　　So it was with the Republic at its height. Like the greatest of trees, able towithstand any external attack, the Republic rotted from within though the danger wasnot visible from outside.
　　Aided and abetted by restless, power-hungry individuals within the government,and the massive organs of commerce, the ambitious Senator Palpatine caused himselfto be elected President of the Republic. He promised to reunite the disaffectedamong the people and to restore the remembered glory of the Republic.
　　Once secure in office he declared himself Emperor, shutting himself away fromthe populace. Soon he was controlled by the very assistants and boot-lickers he hadappointed to high office, and the cries of the people for justice did not reach his ears.
　　Having exterminated through treachery and deception the Jedi Knights,guardians of justice in the galaxy, the Imperial governors and bureaucrats prepared toinstitute a reign of terror among the disheartened worlds of the galaxy. Many usedthe imperial forces and the name of the increasingly isolated Emperor to further theirown personal ambitions.
　　But a small number of systems rebelled at these new outrages. Declaringthemselves opposed to the New Order they began the great battle to restore the OldRepublic.
　　From the beginning they were vastly outnumbered by the system held in thrall bythe Emperor. In those first dark days it seemed certain the bright flame of resistancewould be extinguished before it could cast the light of new truth across a galaxy ofoppressed and beaten peoples´
From the First Saga
Journal of the Whills
　　"They were in the wrong place at the wrong time. Naturally they became heroes."
　　 Leia Organa of Alderaan,Senator

IndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
    

A New Hope
I

　　It was a vast, shining globe and it cast a light of lambent topaz into space-but it wasnot a sun. Thus, the planet had fooled men for a long time. Not until entering closeorbit around it did its discoverers realize that this was a world in a binary system andnot a third sun itself. 
　　At first it seemed certain nothing could exist on such a planet, least of all humans.Yet both massive G1 and G2 stars orbited a common center with peculiar to permitthe development of a rather stable, if exquisitely hot, climate. Mostly this was a drydesert of a world, whose unusual star-like yellow glow was the result of doublesunlight striking sodium-rich sands and flats. That same sunlight suddenly shone onthe thin skin of a metallic shape falling crazily toward the atmosphere.
　　The erratic course the galactic cruiser was traveling was intentional, not theproduct of injury but of a desperate desire to avoid it. Long streaks of intense energyslid close past its hull, a multihued storm of destruction like a school of rainbowremoras fighting to attach themselves to a larger, unwilling host.
　　One of those probing, questing beams succeeded in touching the fleeing ship,striking its principal solar fin. Gemlike fragments of mental and plastic erupted intospace as the end of the fin disintegrated. The vessel seemed to shudder.
　　The source of those multiple energy beams suddenly hove into view-alumbering Imperial cruise, its massive outline bristling cactuslike with dozens ofheavy weapons emplacements. Light ceased arching from those spines now as thecruiser moved in close. Intermittent explosions and flashes of light could be seen inthose portion of the smaller ship which had taken hits. In the absolute cold of spacethe cruiser snuggled up alongside its wounded prey.
　　Another distant explosions shook the ship-but it certainly didn't feel distant toArtoo Detoo or See Threepio. The concussion bounced them around the narrowcorridor like bearings in an old motor.
　　To look at these two, one would have supposed that the tall, human-like machine,Threepio was the master and the stubby, tripodal robot, Artoo Detoo, an inferior.But while Threepio might have sniffed disdainfully at the suggestion, they were infact equal in everything save loquacity. Here Threepio was clearly -andnecessarily -the superior.
　　Still another explosion rattled the corridor, throwing Threepio off balance. Hisshorter companion had the better of it during such moments with his squat, cylindricalbody's low center of gravity well balanced on thick, clawed legs.Artoo glanced up at Threepio, who was steadying himself against a corridor wall.Lights blinked enigmatically around a single mechanical eye as the smaller robotstudied the battered casing of his friend. A patina of metal and fibrous dust coatedthe usually gleaming bronze finish, and there were some visible dents -all the resultof the pounding the rebel ship they were on had been taking.
　　Accompanying the last attack was a persistent deep hum, which even the loudestexplosion had not been able to drown out. Then for no apparent reason, the bassothrumming abruptly ceased, and the only sounds in the otherwise deserted corridorcame from the eerie dry-twig crackle of shorting relays or the pops of dying circuitry.Explosions began to echo through the ship once more, but they were far away fromthe corridor.
　　Threepio turned his smooth, humanlike head to one side. Metallic ears listenedintently. The imitation of a human pose was hardly necessary-Threepio's auditorysensors were fully omnidirectional-but the slim robot had been programmed toblend perfectly among human company. This programming extended even tomimicry of human gestures.
　　"Did you hear that?" he inquired rhetorically of his patient companion, referringto the throbbing sound. "They've shut down the main reactor and the drive." Hisvoice was as full of disbelief and concern as that of any human. One metallic palmrubbed dolefully at a patch of dull gray on his side, where a broken hull brace hadfallen and scored the bronze finish. Threepio was a fastidious machine, and suchthings troubled him.
　　"Madness, this is madness." He shook his head slowly. "This time we'll bedestroyed for sure."
　　Artoo did not comment immediately. Barrel torso tilted backward, powerfullegs gripping the deck; the meter-high robot was engrossed in studying the roofoverhead. Though he did not have a head to cock in a listening posture like hisfriend, Artoo still somehow managed to convey that impression. A series of shortbeeps and chirps issued from his speaker. To even a sensitive human ear they wouldhave been just so much static, but to Threepio they formed words as clear and pure asdirect current.
　　"Yes, I suppose they did have to shut the drive down," Threepio admitted, "butwhat are we going to do now? We can't enter atmosphere with our main stablizer findestroyed. I can't believe we're simply going to surrender."
　　A small band of armed humans suddenly appeared, rifles held at the ready.Their expressions were as worry-wrinkled as their uniforms, and they carried aboutthem the aura of men prepared to die.
　　Threepio watched silently until they had vanished around a far bend in thepassageway, then looked back at Artoo. The smaller robot hadn't shifted from hisposition of listening. Threepio's gaze turned upward also though he knew Artoo'ssenses were slightly sharper than his own.
　　"What is it, Artoo?" A short burst of beeping came in response. Anothermoment, and there was no need for highly attuned sensors. For a minute or twomore, the corridor remained deathly silent. Then a faint scrape, scrape could beheard, like a cat at a door, from somewhere on the ship's hull.
　　When several muffled explosions sounded, Threepio murmured, "They'vebroken in somewhere above us. There's no escape for the Captain this time."Turing he peered down at Artoo. I think we'd better-"
　　The shriek of overstressed metal filled the air before he could finish, and the farend of the passageway was lit by a blinding actinic flash. Somewhere down therethe little cluster of armed crew who had passed by minutes before had encountered theship's attackers.
　　Threepio turned his face and delicate photoreceptors away -just in time to avoidthe fragments of metal that flew down the corridor. At the far end a gaping holeappeared in the roof, and reflective forms like big metal beads began dropping to thecorridor floor. Both robots knew that no machine could match the fluidity withwhich those shapes moved and instantly assumed fighting postures. The newarrivals were humans in armor, not mechanicals.
　　One of them looked straight at Threepio-no, not at him, the panicked robotthrough frantically, but past him. The figure shifted its big rifle around in armoredhands -too late. A beam of intense light struck the head, sending pieces of armor,bone, and flesh flying in all directions.
　　Half the invading Imperial troops turned and began returning fire up thecorridor-aiming past the two robots.
　　"Quick-this way!" Threepio ordered, intending to retreat from the Imperials.Artoo turned with him. They had taken only a couple of steps when they saw therebel crewmen in position ahead, firing down the corridor. In seconds thepassageway was filled with smoke and crisscrossing beams of energy.
　　Red, green and blue bolts ricocheted off polished sections of wall and floor orripped long gashes in metal surfaces. Screams of injured and dying humans -apeculiarly unrobotic sound, Threepio thought-echoed piercingly above the inorganicdestruction.
　　One beam struck near the robot's feet at the same time as a second one burst thewall directly behind him, exposing sparking circuitry and rows of conduits. Theforce of the twin blast tumbled Threepio into the shredded cables, where a dozendifferent currents turned him into a jerking, twisting display.
　　Strange sensations coursed through his metal nerve-ends. They caused no pain,only confusion. Every time he moved and tried to free himself there was anotherviolent crackling as a fresh cluster of componentry broke. The noise and man-madelightning remained constant around him as the battle continued to rage.
　　Smoke began to fill the corridor. Artoo Detoo bustled about trying to help freehis friend. The little robot evidenced a phlegmatic indifference to the raveningenergies filling the passageway. He was built so low that most of the beams passedover him anyhow.
　　"Help!" Threepio yelled, suddenly frightened at a new message from aninternal sensor. "I think something is melting. Free my left leg-the trouble's nearthe pelvic servomotor." Typically, his tone turned abruptly from pleading to berating.
　　"This is all your fault!" he shouted angrily. "I should have known better than totrust the logic of a half-sized thermocapsulary dehousing assister. I don't know whyyou insisted we leave our assigned stations to come down this stupid access corridor.Not that it matters now. The whole ship must be-" Artoo Detoo cut him off inmidspeech with some angry beepings and hoots of his own, though he continued tocut and pull with precision at the tangled high-voltage cables.
　　"Is that so?" Threepio sneered in reply. "The same to you, you little´!"
　　And exceptionally violent explosion shook the passage, drowning him out. Alung-searing miasma of carbonized component filled the air, obscuring everything.
　　Two meters tall. Bipedal. Flowing black robes trailing from the figure and aface forever masked by a functional if bizarre black metal breath screen -a Dark Lordof the Sith was an awesome, threatening shape as it strode through the corridors of therebel ship.
　　Fear followed the footsteps of all the Dark Lords. The cloud of evil whichclung tight about this particular one was intense enough to cause hardened Imperialtroops to back away, menacing enough to set them muttering nervously amongthemselves. Once-resolute rebel crewmembers ceased resisting, broke and ran inpanic at the sight of the black armor -armor which, though black as it was, was notnearly as dark as the thoughts drifting through the mind within.
　　One purpose, one thought, one obsession dominated that mind now. It burnedin the brain of Darth Vader as he turned down another passageway in the brokenfighter. There smoke was beginning to clear, though the sound of faraway fightingstill resounded through the hull. The battle here had ended and moved on.
　　Only a robot was left to stir freely in the wake of the Dark Lord's passing. SeeThreepio finally stepped clear of the last restraining cable. Somewhere behind himhuman screams could be heard from where relentless Imperial troops were moppingup the last remnants of rebel resistance.
　　Threepio glanced down and saw only scarred deck. As he looked around, hisvoice was full of concern. "Artoo Detoo-where are you?" the smoke seemed topart just a bit more. Threepio found himself staring up the passageway.
　　Artoo Detoo, it seemed, was there. But he wasn't looking in Threepio'sdirection. Instead, the little robot appeared frozen in an attitude of attention.Leaning over him was-it was difficult for even Threepio's electronic photoreceptorsto penetrate the clinging, acidic smoke-a human figure. It was young, slim, and byabstruse human standards of aesthetics, Threepio mused, of a calm beauty. Onesmall hand seemed to be moving over the front of Artoo's torso.
　　Threepio started toward them as the haze thickened once more. But when hereached the end of the corridor, only Artoo stood there, waiting. Threepio peeredpast him, uncertain. Robots were occasionally subject to electronic hallucinations-but why should he hallucinate a human?
　　He shrugged´Then again, why not, especially when one considered theconfusing circumstances of the past hour and the dose of raw current he had recentlyabsorbed. He shouldn't be surprised at anything his concatenated internal circuitconjured up.
　　"Where have you been?" Threepio finally asked. "Hiding, I suppose." Hedecided not to mention the maybe-human. If it had been a hallucination, he wasn'tgoing to give Artoo the satisfaction of knowing how badly recent events had unsettledhis logic circuits.
　　"They'll be coming back this way," he went on, nodding down the corridor andnot giving the small automation a chance to reply, "looking for human survivors.What are we going to do now? They won't trust the word of rebel-owned machinesthat we don't know anything of value. We'll be sent to the spice mines of Kessel ortaken apart for spare components for other, less deserving robots. That's if theydon't consider us potential program traps and blow us apart on sight. If we don't´"But Artoo had already turned and was ambling quickly back down the passageway.
　　"Wait, where are you going? Haven't you been listening to me?" Utteringcurses in several languages, some purely mechanical, Threepio raced fluidly after hisfriend. The Artoo unit, he thought to himself, could be downright close-circuitedwhen it wanted to.
　　Outside the galactic cruiser's control center the corridor was crowded with sullenprisoners gathered by Imperial troops. Some lay wounded, some dying. Severalofficers had been separated from the enlisted ranks and stood in a small group bythemselves, bestowing belligerent looks and threats on the silent knot of troopsholding them at bay.
　　As if on command, everyone-Imperial troops as well as rebels-became silentas massive capped from came into view from behind a turn in the passage. Two ofthe heretofore resolute, obstinate rebel officers began to shake. Stopping before oneof the men, the towering figure reached out wordlessly. A massive hand closedaround the man's neck and lifted him off the deck. The rebel officer's eyes bulged,but he kept his silence.
　　And Imperial officer, his armored helmet shoved back to reveal a recent scarwhere and energy beam had penetrated his shielding, scrambled down out of thefighter's control room, shaking his head briskly. "Nothing, sir. Informationretrieval system's been wiped clean."
　　Darth Vader acknowledged this news with a barely perceptible nod. Theimpenetrable mask turned to regard the officer he was torturing. Metal0clad fingerscontracted. Reaching up, the prisoner desperately tried to pry them loose, but to noavail.
　　"Where is the data you intercepted?" Vader rumbled dangerously. "What haveyou done with the information tapes?"
　　"We-intercepted-no information," the dangling officer gurgled, barely ableto breathe. From somewhere deep within, he dredged up a squeal of outrage. "Thisis a ´councilor vessel´ Did you not see our mission."
　　"Chaos take your mission!" Vader growled. "Where are those tapes!" Hesqueezed harder, the threat in his grip implicit.
　　When he finally replied, the officer's voice was a bare, choked whisper."Only ´ the Commander knows."
　　"This ship carries the system crest of Alderaan," Vader growled, the gargoyle-like breath mask leaning close. "Is any of the royal family on board? Who are youcarrying?" Thick fingers tightened further, and the officer's struggles became moreand more frantic. His last words were muffled and choked past intelligibility.
　　Vader was not pleased. Even though the figure went limp with an awful,unquestionable finality, that hand continued to tighten, producing a chilling snappingand popping of bone, like a dog padding on plastic. Then with a disgusted wheezeVader finally threw the doll-form of the dead man against a far wall. SeveralImperial troops ducked out of the way just in time to avoid the grisly missile.
　　The massive form whirled unexpectedly, and Imperial officers shrank under thatbaleful sculptured component by component, until you find those tapes. As for thepassengers, if any, I want them alive." He paused a moment, then added, "Quickly!"Officers and men nearly fell over themselves in their haste to leave-not necessarilyto carry out Vader's orders, but simply to retreat from that malevolent presence.
　　Artoo Detoo finally came to a halt in an empty corridor devoid of smoke and thesigns of battle. A worried, confused Threepio pulled up behind him.
　　"You've led us through half the ship, and to what´?" He broke off, staring indisbelief as the squat robot reached up with one clawed limb and snapped the seal ona lifeboat hatch. Immediately a red warning light came on and a low hootingsounded in the corridor.
　　Threepio looked wildly in all directions, but the passageway remained empty.When he looked back, Artoo was already working his way into the cramped boat pod.It was just large enough to hold several humans, and its design was not laid out toaccommodate mechanicals. Artoo had some trouble negotiating the awkward littlecompartment.
　　"Hey," a startled Threepio called, admonishing, "you're not permitted in there!It's restricted to humans only. We just might be able to convince the Imperials thatwe're not rebel programmed and are too valuable to break up, but if someone sees youin there we haven't got a chance. Come on out."
　　Somehow Artoo had succeeded in wedging his body into position in front of theminiature control board. He cocked his body slightly and threw a stream of loudbeeps and whistles at his reluctant companion.
　　Threepio listened. He couldn't frown, but he managed to give a goodimpression of doing so. "Mission´what mission? What are you talking about?You sound like you haven't got an integrated logic terminal left in your brain.No´no more adventures. I'll take my chances with the Imperials-and I'm notgetting in there."
　　An angry electronic twang came from the Artoo unit."Don't call me a mindless philosopher," Threepio snapped back, "you overweight,unstreamlined glob of grease!"
　　Threepio was concocting an additional rejoinder when an explosion blew out theback wall of the corridor. Dust and metal debris whooshed through the narrow sub-passageway, followed instantly by a series of secondary explosions. Flames beganjumping hungrily from the exposed interior wall; reflection off Threepio's isolatedpatches of polished skin.
　　Muttering the electronic equivalent of consigning his soul to the unknown, thelanky robot jumped into the audibly as Artoo activated the safety door behind him.The smaller robot flipped a series of switches, snapped back a cover, and pressedthree buttons in a certain sequence. With the thunder of explosive latches the lifepod ejected from the crippled fighter.
　　When word came over the communicators that the last pocket of resistance onthe rebel ship had been cleaned out, the Captain of the Imperial cruiser relaxedconsiderably. He was listening with pleasure to proceedings on captured vesselwhen one of his chief gunnery officers called to him. Moving to the man's position,the Captain stared into the circular viewscreen and saw a tiny dot dropping awaytoward the fiery world below.
　　"There goes another pod, sir. Instructions?" The officer's hand hovered overa computerized energy battery.
　　Casually, confident in the firepower and total control under his command, theCaptain studied the nearby readouts monitoring the pod. All of them read blank.
　　"Hold your fire, Lieutenant Hija. Instruments show no life forms aboard. Thepod's release mechanism must have short-circuited or received a false instruction.Don't waste you power." He turned away, to listen with satisfaction to the reports ofcaptured men and material coming from the rebel ship.
　　Glare from exploding panels and erupting circuitry reflected crazily off thearmor of the lead storm trooper as he surveyed the passageway ahead. He was aboutto turn and call for those behind to follow him forward when he noticed somethingmoving off to one side. It appeared to be crouching back in a small, dark alcove.Holding his pistol ready, he moved cautiously forward and peered into the recess.
　　A small, shivering figure clad in flowing white hugged the back of the recess andstared up at the man. Now he could see that he faced a young woman, and herphysical description fit that of the one individual the Dark Lord was most interested in.The trooper grinned behind his helmet. A lucky encounter for him. He would becommended.
　　Within the armor his head turned slightly, directing his voice to the tinycondenser microphone. "Here she is," he called to those behind him. "Set for stunforc-"
　　He never finished the sentence, just as he would never receive the hoped-forcommendation. Once his attention turned from the girl to his communicator hershivering vanished with starling speed. The energy pistol he had held out of sightbehind her came up and around as she burst from her hiding place.
　　The trooper who had been unlucky enough to find her fell first, his head a massof melted bone and metal. The same fate met the second armored from coming upfast behind him. Then a bright green energy pole touched the woman's side and sheslumped instantly to the deck, the pistol still locked in her small palm.
　　Metal-encased shapes clustered around her. One whose arm bore the insigniaof a lower officer knelt and turned her over. He studied the paralyzed form with apracticed eye.
　　"She'll be all right," he finally declared, looking up his subordinates. "Reportto Lord Vader."
　　Threepio stared, mesmerized, out the small view-port set in the front of the tinyescape pod as the hot yellow eye of Tatooine began to swallow them up.Somewhere behind them, he knew, the crippled fighter and the Imperial cruiser werereceding to imperceptibility.
　　That was fine with him. If they landed near a civilized city, he would seekelegant employment in a halcyon atmosphere, something more befitting his status andtraining. These past months had gifted him with entirely too much excitement andunpredictability for a mere machine.
　　Artoo's seemingly random manipulation of the pod controls promised anythingbut a smooth landing, however. Threepio regarded his squat companion withconcern.
　　"Are you sure you know how to pilot this thing?"
　　Artoo replied with a noncommittal whistle that did nothing to alter the tallerrobot's jangled state of mind.

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
    

A New Hope
II

　　It was an old settler's saying that you could burn your eyes out faster by staringstraight and hard at the sun-scorched flatlands of Tatooine than by looking directly atits two huge suns themselves, so powerful was the penetrating glare reflected fromthose endless wastes. Despite the flare, life could and did exist in the flatlandsformed by long-evaporated seabeds. One thing made it possible: the reintroductionof water.
　　For human purposes, however, the water of Tatooine was only marginallyaccessible. The atmosphere yielded its moisture with reluctance. It had to becoaxed down out of the hard blue sky-coaxed, forced, yanked down to the parchedsurface. Two figures whose concern was obtaining that moisture were standing on aslight rise of one of those inhospitable flats. One of the pair was stiff and metallic-a sand-pitted vaporator sunk securely through sand and into deeper rock. The figurenext to it was a food deal more animated, though no less sun-weathered.
　　Luke Skywalker was twice the age of the ten-year-old vaporator, but much lesssecure. At the moment he was swearing softly at a recalcitrant valve adjuster on thetemperamental device. From time to time he resorted to some unsubtle pounding inplace of using the appropriate tool. Neither method worked very well. Luke wassure that the lubricants used on the vaporator went out of their way to attract sand,beckoning seductively to small abrasive particles with an oily gleam. He wipedsweat from his forehead and leaned back for a moment. The most prepossessingthing about the young man was his name. A light breeze tugged at his shaggy hairand baggy work tunic as he regarded the device. No point in staying angry at it, hecounseled himself. It's only an unintelligent machine.
　　As Luke considered his predicament, a third figure appeared, scooting out frombehind the vaporator to fumble awkwardly at the damaged section. Only three of theTreadwell model robot's six arms were functioning, and these had seen more wearthan the boots on Luke's feet. The machine moved with unsteady stop-and-startmotions.
　　Luke gazed at it sadly, then inclined his head to study the sky. Still no sign of acloud, and he knew there never would be unless he got that vaporator working. Hewas about to try once again when a small, intense gleam of light caught his eye.Quickly he slipped the carefully cleaned set of macrobinoculars from his utility beltand focused the lenses skyward.
　　For long moments he stared, wishing all the while that he had a real telescopeinstead of the binocs. As he stared, vaporators, the heat, and the day's remainingchores were forgotten. Clipping the binoculars back onto his belt, Luke turned anddashed for the landspeeder. Halfway to the vehicle he thought to call behind him.
　　"Hurry up," he shouted impatiently. "What are you waiting for? Get it ingear."
　　The Treadwell started toward him, hesitated, and then commenced spinning in atight circle, smoke belching from every joint. Luke shouted further instruction, thenfinally gave up in disgust when he realized that it would take more than words tomotivate the Treadwell again.
　　For a moment Luke hesitated at leaving the machine behind-but, he argued tohimself, its vital components were obviously shot. So he jumped into thelandspeeder, causing the recently repaired repulsion floater to list alarmingly to oneside until he was able to equalize weight distribution by sliding behind the controls.Maintaining its altitude slightly above the sandy ground, the light-duty transportvehicle steadied itself like a boat in a heavy sea. Luke gunned the engine, whichwhined in protest, and sand erupted behind the floater as he aimed the craft toward thedistant town of Anchorhead.
　　Behind him, a pitiful beacon of black smoke from the burning robot continued torise into the clear desert air. It wouldn't be there when Luke returned. There werescavengers of metal as well as flesh in the wide wastes of Tatooine.
　　Metal and stone structures bleached white by the glaze of twin Tatoo I and IIhuddled together tightly, for company as much as for protection. They formed thenexus of the widespread farming community of Anchorhead.
　　Presently the dusty, unpaved streets were quiet, deserted. Sandflies buzzedlazily in the cracked eaves of pourstone building. A dog barked in the distance, thesole sign of habitation until a lone old woman appeared and started across the street.Her metallic sun shawl was pulled tight around her.
　　Something made her look up, tired eyes squinting into the distance. The soundsuddenly leaped in volume as a shining rectangular shape came roaring around a farcorner. Her eyes popped as the vehicle bore down on her, showing no sign ofaltering its path. She had to scramble to get out of its way.
　　Panting and waving an angry fist after the landspeeder, she raised her voice overthe sound of its passage. "Won't you kids ever learn to slow down!"
　　Luke might have seen her, but he certainly didn't hear her. In both cases hisattention was focused elsewhere as he pulled up behind a low, long concrete station.Various coils and rods jutted from its top and sides. Tatooine's relentless sand wavesbroke in frozen yellow spume against the station's walls. No one had bothered toclear them away. There was no point. They would only return again the followingday.
　　Luke slammed the front door aside and shouted, "Hey!"
　　A rugged young man in mechanic's dress sat sprawled in a chair behind thestation's unkempt control desk. Sunscreen oil had kept his skin from burning. Theskin of the girl on his lap had been equally protected, and there was a great deal moreof the protected area in view. Somehow even dried sweat looked good on her.
　　"Hey, everybody!" Luke yelled again, having elicited something less than anoverwhelming response with his first cry. He ran toward the instrument room at therear of the station while the mechanic, half asleep, ran a hand across his face andmumbled, "Did I hear a young noise blast through here?"
　　The girl on his lap stretched sensuously, her well-worn clothing tugging invarious intriguing directions. Her voice was casually throaty. "Oh," she yawned,"that was just Wormie on one of his rampages."
　　Deak and Windy looked up from the computer-assisted pool game as Luke burstinto the room. They were dressed much like Luke, although their clothing was ofbetter fit and somewhat less exercised.
　　All three youths contrasted strikingly with the burly handsome player at the farside of the table. From neatly clipped hair to his precision-cut uniform he stood outin the room like an Oriental poppy in a sea of oats. Behind the three humans a softhum came from where a repair robot was working patiently on a broken piece ofstation equipment.
　　"Shape it up, you guys," Luke yelled excitedly. Then he noticed the older manin the uniform. The subject of his suddenly startled gaze recognized himsimultaneously.
　　"Biggs!"
　　The man's face twisted in a half grin. "Hello, Luke." Then they wereembracing each other warmly.
　　Luke finally stood away, openly admiring the other's uniform. "I didn't knowyou were back. When did you get in?"
　　The confidence in the other's voice bordered the realm of smugness withoutquite entering it. "Just a little while ago. I wanted to surprise you, hotshot." Heindicated the room. "I thought you'd be here with these other two nightcrawlers."Deak and Windy both smiled. "I certainly didn't expect you to be out working."He laughed easily, a laugh few people found resistible.
　　"The academy didn't change you much," Luke commented. "But you're backso soon." His expression grew concerned. "Hey, what happened-didn't you getyour commission?"
　　There was something evasive about Biggs as he replied, looking slightly away,"Of course I got it. Signed to serve aboard the freighter Rand Ecliptic just last week.First Mate Biggs Darklighter, at your service." He performed a twisting salute, halfserious and half humorous, then grinned that over bearing yet ingratiating grin again.
　　"I just came back to say good-bye to all you unfortunate landlocked simpletons."They all laughed, until Luke suddenly remembered what had brought him here in suchhurry.
　　"I almost forgot," he told them, his initial excitement returning, "there's a battlegoing on right here in our system. Come and look."
　　Deak looked disappointed. "Not another one of your epic battles, Luke.Haven't you dreamed up enough of them? Forget it."
　　"Forget it, hell-I'm serious. It's a battle, all right."
　　With words and shoves he managed to cajole the occupants of the station out intothe strong sunlight. Camie in particular looked disgusted.
　　"This had better be worth it, Luke," she warned him, shading her eyes against theglare.
　　Luke already had his macrobinoculars out and was searching the heavens. Ittook only a moment for him to fix on a particular spot. "I told you," he insisted."There they are."
　　Biggs moved alongside him and reached for the binoculars as the other strainedunaided eyes. A slight readjustment provided just enough magnification for Biggs toout two silvery specks against the dark blue.
　　"That's no battle, hotshot," he decided, lowering the binocs and regarding hisfriend gently. "They're just sitting there. Two ships, all right-probably a bargeloading a freighter, since Tatooine hasn't got an orbital station."
　　"There was a lot of firing-earlier," Luke added. His initial enthusiasm wasbeginning to falter under the withering assurance of his older friend.
　　Camie grabbed the binoculars away from Biggs, banging them slightly against asupport pillar in the process. Luke took them away from her quickly, inspecting thecasing for damage. "Take it easy with those."
　　"Don't worry so much, Wormie." She sneered. Luke took a step toward her,then halted as the huskier mechanic easily interposed himself between them andfavored Luke with a warning smile. Luke considered, shrugged the incident away.
　　"I keep telling you, Luke," the mechanic said, with the air of a man tired ofrepeating the same story to no avail, "the rebellion is a long way from here. I doubtif the Empire would fight to keep this system. Believe me, Tatooine is a big hunk ofnothing."
　　His audience began to fade back into the station before Luke could mutter a reply.Fixer had his arm around Camie, and the two of them were chuckling over Luke'sineptitude. Even Deak and Windy were murmuring among themselves-about him,Luke was certain.
　　He followed them, but not without a last glance back and up to the distant specks.One thing he was sure of were the flashes of light he had seen between the two ships.They hadn't been caused by the suns of Tatooine reflecting off metal.
　　The binding that locked the girl's hands behind her back was primitive andeffective. The constant attention the squad of heavily armed troopers favored herwith might have been out of place for one small female, except for the fact that theirlives depended on her being delivered safely.
　　When she deliberately slowed her pace, however, it became apparent that hercaptors did not mind mistreating her a little. One of the armored figures shoved herbrutally in the small of the back, and she nearly fell. Turning, she gave the offendingsoldier a vicious look. But she could not tell if it had any effect, since the man's facewas completely hidden by his armored helmet.
　　The hallway they eventually emerged into was still smoking around the edges ofthe smoldering cavity blasted through the hull of the fighter. A portable accesswayhad been sealed to it and a circlet of light showed at the far end of the tunnel, bridgingspace between the rebel craft and the cruiser. A shadow moved over her as sheturned from inspecting the accessway, startling her despite her usually unshakableself-control.
　　Above her toward the threatening bulk of Darth Vader, red eyes glaring behindthe hideous breath mask. A muscle twitched in one smooth cheek, but other thanthat the girl didn't react. Nor was there the slightest shake in her voice.
　　"Darth Vader´I should have known. Only you would be so bold-and sostupid. Well, the Imperial Senate will not sit still for this. When they hear that youhave attacked a diplomatic miss-"
　　"Senator Leia Organa," Vader rumbled softly, though strongly enough tooverride her protests. His pleasure at finding her was evident in the way he savoredevery syllable.
　　"Don't play games with me, Your Highness," he continued ominously. "Youaren't on any mercy mission this time. You passed directly through a restrictedsystem, ignoring numerous warnings and completely disregarding orders to turnabout-until it no longer mattered."
　　The huge metal skull dipped close. "I know that several transmissions werebeamed to this vessel by spies within that system. When we traced thosetransmissions back to the individuals with whom they originated; they had the poorgrace to kill themselves before they could be questioned. I want to know whathappened to the data they sent you."
　　Neither Vader's words nor his inimical presence appeared to have any effect onthe girl. "I don't know what you're blathering about," she snapped, looking awayfrom him. "I'm a member of the Senate on a diplomatic mission to-"
　　"To your part of the rebel alliance," Vader declared, cutting her off accusingly."You're also a traitor." His gaze went to a nearby officer. "Take her away."
　　She succeeded in reaching him with her spit, which hissed against still-hot battlearmor. He wiped the offensive matter away silently, watching her with interest asshe was marched through the accessway into the cruiser.
　　A tall, slim soldier wearing the sign of an Imperial Commander attracted Vader'sattention as he came up next to him. "Holding her is dangerous," he ventured,likewise looking after her as she was escorted toward the cruiser. "If word of thisdoes get out, there will be much unrest in the Senate. It will generate sympathy forthe rebels." The Commander looked up at the unreadable metal face, then added inan off-handed manner, "She should be destroyed immediately."
　　"No. My first duty is to locate that hidden fortress of theirs," Vader repliedeasily. "All the rebel spies have been eliminated-by our hand or by their own.Therefore she is now my only key to discovering its location. I intend to make fulluse of her. If necessary, I will use her up-but I will learn the location of the rebelbase."
　　The Commander pursed his lips, shook his head slightly, perhaps a bitsympathetically, as he considered the woman. "She'll die before she gives you anyinformation." Vader's reply was chilling in its indifference. "Leave that to me."He considered a moment, then went on. "Send out a wide-band distress signal.Indicate that the Senator's ship encountered an unexpected meteorite cluster it couldnot avoid. Readings indicate that the shift shields were overridden and the ship washulled to the point of vacating ninety-five percent of its atmosphere. Inform herfather and the Senate that all aboard were killed."
　　A cluster of tired-looking troops marched purposefully up to their Commanderand the Dark Lord. Vader eyed them expectantly.
　　"The data tapes in question are not aboard the ship. There is no valuableinformation in the ship's storage banks and no evidence of bank erasure," the officerin charge recited mechanically. "Nor were any transmissions directed outward fromthe ship from the time we made contact. A malfunctioning lifeboat pod was ejectedduring the fighting, but it was confirmed at the time that no life forms were on board."
　　Vader appeared thoughtful. "It could have been a malfunctioning pod," hemused, "That might also have contained the tapes. Tapes are not life forms. In allprobability any native finding them would be ignorant of their importance and wouldlikely clear them for his own use. Still´"
　　"Send down a detachment to retrieve them, or to make certain they are not in thepod," he finally ordered the Commander and attentive officer. "Be as subtle aspossible; there is no need to attract attention, even on this miserable outpost world."
　　As the officer and troops departed, Vader turned his gaze back to the Commander."Vaporize this fighter-we don't want to leave anything. As for the pod, I cannottake the chance it was a simple malfunction. The data it might contain could provetoo damaging. See to this personally, Commander. If those data tapes exist, theymust be retrieved or destroyed at all costs." Then he added with satisfaction, "Withthat accomplished and the Senator in our hands, we will see the end of this absurdrebellion."
　　"It shall be as you direct, Lord Vader," the Commander acknowledged. Bothmen entered the accessway to the cruiser.
　　"What a forsaken place this is!"
　　Threepio turned cautiously to look back at where the pod lay half buried in sand.His internal gyros were still unsteady from the rough landing. Landing! Mereapplication of the term unduly flattered his dull associate.
　　On the other hand, he supposed he ought to be grateful they had come down inone piece. Although, he mused as he studied the barren landscape, he still wasn'tsure they were better off here than they would have been had they remained on thecaptured cruiser. High sandstone mesas dominated the skyline to one side. Everyother direction showed only endless series of marching dunes like long yellow teethstretching for kilometer on kilometer into the distance. Sand ocean blended into sky-glare until it was impossible to distinguish where one ended and the other began.
　　A faint cloud of minute dust particles rose in their wake as the two robotsmarched away from the pod. That vehicle, its intended function fully discharged,was now quite useless. Neither robot had been designed for pedal locomotion onthis kind of terrain, so they had to fight their way across the unstable surface.
　　"We seem to have been made to suffer," Threepio moaned in self-pity. "It's arotten existence." Something squeaked in his right leg and he winced. "I've got torest before I fall apart. My internals still haven't recovered from that headlong crashyou called a landing."
　　He paused, but Artoo Detoo did not. The little automation had performed asharp turn and was now ambling slowly but steadily in the direction of the nearestoutjut of mesa.
　　"Hey," Threepio yelled. Artoo ignored the call and continued striding."Where do you think you are going?"
　　Now Artoo paused, emitting a stream of electronic explanation as Threepioexhaustedly walked over to join him.
　　"Well, I'm not going that way," Threepio declared when Artoo had concluded hisexplanation. "It's too rocky." He gestured in the direction they had been walking,at an angle away from the cliffs. "This way is much easier." A metal hand waveddisparagingly at the high mesas. "What makes you think there are settlements thatway, anyhow?"
　　A long whistle issued from the depths of Artoo.
　　"Don't get technical with me," Threepio warned. "I've had just about enoughof your decisions."
　　Artoo beeped once.
　　"All right, go your way," Threepio announced grandly. "You'll be sandloggedwithin a day, you nearsighted scrap pile." He gave the Artoo unit a contemptuousshove, sending the smaller robot tumbling down a slight dune. As it struggled at thebottom to regain its feet, Threepio started off toward the blurred, glaring horizon,glancing back over his shoulder. "Don't let me catch you following me, begging forhelp," he warned, "because you won't get it."
　　Below the crest of the dune, the Artoo unit righted itself. It paused briefly toclean its single electronic eye with an auxiliary arm. Then it produced an electronicsqueal, which was almost, though not quite, a human expression of rage. Hummingquietly to itself then, it turned and trudged off toward the sandstone ridges as ifnothing had happened.
　　Several hours later a straining Threepio, his internal thermostat overloaded andedging dangerously toward overheat shutdown, struggled up the top of what he hopedwas the last towering the dune. Nearby, a pillars and buttresses of bleached calcium,the bones of some enormous beast, formed an unpromising landmark. Reaching thecrest of the dune, Threepio peered anxiously ahead. Instead of the hoped-forgreenery of human civilization he saw only several dozen more dunes, identical inform and promise to the one he now stood upon. The farthest rose even higher thanthe one he presently surmounted.
　　Threepio turned and looked back toward the now far-off rocky plateau, whichwas beginning to grow indistinct with distance and heat distortion. "Youmalfunctioning little twerp," he muttered, unable even now to admit to himself thatperhaps, just possibly, the Artoo unit might have been right. "This is all your fault.You tricked me into going this way, but you'll do no better."
　　Nor would he if he didn't continue on. So he took a step forward and heardsomething grind dully within a leg joint. Sitting down in an electronic funk, hebegan picking sand from his encrusted joints.
　　He could continue on his present course, he told himself. Or he could confessto an error in judgment and try to catch up again with Artoo Detoo. Neither prospectheld much appeal for him.
　　But there was a third choice. He could sit here, shining in the sunlight, until hisjoints locked, his internals overheated, and the ultraviolet burned out hisphotoreceptors. He would become another monument to the destructive power ofthe binary, like the colossal organism whose picked corpse he had just encountered.
　　Already his receptors were beginning to go, he reflected. It seemed he sawsomething moving in the distance. Heat distortion, probably. No-no-it wasdefinitely light on metal, and it was moving toward him. His hopes soared.Ignoring the warnings from his damaged leg, he rose and began waving frantically.
　　It was, he saw now, definitely a vehicle, though of a type unfamiliar to him.But a vehicle it was, and that implied intelligence and technology.
　　He neglected in his excitement to consider the possibility that it might not be ofhuman origin.
　　"So I cut off my power, shut down the afterburners, and dropped in low onDeak's tail," Luke finished, waving his arms wildly. He and Biggs were walking inthe shade outside the power station. Sounds of metal being worked came fromsomewhere within, where Fixer had finally joined his robot assistant in performingrepairs."I was so close to him," Luke continued excitedly, "I thought I was going to fry myinstrumentation. As it was. I busted up the skyhopper pretty bad." Thatrecollection inspired a frown.
　　"Uncle Owen was pretty upset. He grounded me for the rest of the season."Luke's depression was brief. Memory of his feat overrode its immorality.
　　"You should have been there, Biggs!"
　　"You ought to take it a little easier," his friend cautioned. "You may be thehottest bush pilot this side of Mos Eisley, Luke, but those little skyhoppers can bedangerous. They move awfully fast for tropospheric craft-faster than they need to.Keep playing engine jockey with one and someday, whammo!" He slammed one fistviolently into his open palm. "You're going to be nothing more than a dark spot onthe damp side of a canyon wall."
　　"Look who's talking," Luke retorted. "Now that you've been on a few bigautomatic starships you're beginning to sound like my uncle. You've gotten soft inthe cities." He swung spiritedly at Biggs, who blocked the movement easily, makinga halfhearted gesture of counterattack.
　　Biggs's easygoing smugness dissolved into something warmer. "I've missedyou, kid."
　　Luke looked away, embarrassed. "Things haven't exactly been the same sinceyou left, either, Biggs. It's been so-" Luke hunted for the right word and finallyfinished helplessly, "so quiet." His gaze traveled across the sandy, deserted streets ofAnchorhead. "Its always been quiet, really."
　　Biggs grew silent, thinking. He glanced around. They were along out there.Everyone else was back inside the comparative coolness of the power station. As heleaned close Luke sense an unaccustomed solemness in his friend's tone.
　　"Luke, I don't come back just to say good-bye, or to crow over everyone becauseI got through the Academy." Again he hesitate, unsure of himself. Then he blurtedout rapidly, not giving himself a chance to back down, "But I want somebody to know.I can't tell my parents."
　　Gaping at Biggs, Luke could only gulp, "Know what? What are you talkingabout?"
　　"I'm talking about the talking that's been going on at the Academy-and otherplaces, Luke. Strong talking. I made some new friends, outsystem friends. Weagreed about the way certain things are developing, and-" his voice droppedconspiratorially-"When we reach one of the peripheral systems, we're going to jumpship and join the Alliance."
　　Luke stared back at his friend, tried to picture Biggs-fun-loving, happy-go-lucky, live-for-today Biggs-as patriot afire with rebellious fervor.
　　"You're going to join the rebellion?" he started. "You've got to be kidding.How?"
　　"Damp down, will you?" the bigger man cautioned. "You've got a mouth like acrater."
　　"I'm sorry," Luke whispered rapidly. "I'm quiet-listen how quiet I am. Youcan barely hear me-"
　　Biggs cut him off and continued. "A friend of mine from the Academy has afriend on Bestine who might enable us to make contact with an armed rebel unit.""A friend of a-You're crazy," Luke announced with conviction, certain his friendhad gone mad. "You could wander around forever trying to find a real rebel outpost.Most of them are only myths. This twice removed friend could be an imperial agent.You'd end up on Kessel, or worse. If rebel outposts were so easy to find, the Empirewould have wiped them out years ago."
　　"I know it's a long shot," Biggs admitted reluctantly. "If I don't contact them,then"-a peculiar light came into Biggs's eyes, a conglomeration of newfoundmaturity and´something else-"I'll do what I can, on my own."
　　He stared intensely at his friend. "Luke, I'm not going to wait for the Empire toconscript me into its service. In spite of what you hear over the official informationchannels, the rebellion is growing, spreading. And I want to be on the right side-the side I believe in." His voice altered unpleasantly, and Luke wondered what hesaw in his mind's eye.
　　"You should have heard some of the stories I've heard, Luke, learned of some ofthe outrages I've learned about. The Empire may have been great and beautiful once,but the people in charge now-" He shook his head sharply. "It's rotten, Luke,rotten."
　　"And I can't do a damn thing," Luke muttered morosely. "I'm stuck here."He kicked futilely at the ever-present sand of Anchorhead.
　　"I though you were going to enter the Academy soon," Biggs observed. "Ifthat's so, then you'll have your chance to get off this sandpile."
　　Luke snorted derisively. "Not likely. I had to withdraw my application." Helooked away, unable to meet his friend's disbelieving stare. "I had to. There's beena lot of unrest among the sandpeople since you left, Biggs. They've even raided theoutskirts of Anchorhead."
　　Biggs shook his head, disregarding the excuse. "Your uncle could hold off awhole colony of raiders with one blaster."
　　"From the house, sure," Luke agreed, "but Uncle Owen's finally got enoughvaporators installed and running to make the farm pay off big. But he can't guard allthat land by himself, and he says he needs me for one more season. I can't run outon him now."
　　Biggs sighed sadly. "I feel for you, Luke. Someday you're going to have tolearn to separate what seems to be important from what really is important." Hegestured around them.
　　"What good is all your uncle's work if it's taken over by the Empire? I'veheard that they're starting to imperialize commerce in all the outlying systems. Itwon't be long before your uncle and everyone else on Tatooine are just tenantsslaving for the greater glory of the Empire."
　　"That couldn't happen here," Luke objected with a confidence he didn't quitefeel. "You've said it yourself-the Empire won't bother with this rock."
　　"Things change, Luke. Only the threat is completely removed-well, there aretwo things men have never been able to satisfy; their curiosity and their greed.There isn't much the high Imperial bureaucrats are curious about."
　　Both men stood silent. A sandwhirl traversed the street in silent majesty,collapsing against a wall to send newborn baby zephyrs in all directions.
　　"I wish I was going with you," Luke finally murmured. He glanced up. "Willyou be around long?"
　　"No. As a matter of fact, I'm leaving in the morning to rendezvous with theEcliptic."
　　"Then I guess...I won't seeing you again."
　　"Maybe someday," Biggs declared. He brightened, grinning that disarming grin."I'll keep a look out for you, brother. Try not to run into any canyon walls in themeantime."
　　"I'll be at the Academy the season after," Luke insisted, more to encouragehimself than Biggs. "After that, who knows where I'll end up?" He soundeddetermined. "I won't be drafted into the starfleet, that's for sure. Tale care ofyourself. You'll´always be the best friend I've got." There was no need for ahandshake. These two had long since passed beyond that.
　　"So long, then, Luke," Biggs said simply. He turned and reentered the powerstation.
　　Luke watched him disappear through the door, his own thoughts as chaotic andfrenetic as one of Tatooine's spontaneous dust storms.
　　There were any numbers of extraordinary features unique to Tatooine's surface.Outstanding among them were the mysterious mists, which rose regularly from theground at the points where desert sands washed up against unyielding cliffs and mesas.
　　Fog in a steaming desert seemed as out of place as cactus on a glacier, but itexisted nonetheless. Meteorologists and geologists argued its origin amongthemselves, muttering hard-to-believe theories about water suspended in sandstoneveins beneath the sand and incomprehensible chemical reactions which made waterrise when the ground cooled, then fall underground again with the double sunrise. Itwas all very backward and very real.
　　Neither the mist nor the alien moans of nocturnal desert dwellers troubled ArtooDetoo, however, as he made his careful way up the rocky arroyo, hunting for theeasiest pathway to the mesa top. His squarish, broad footpads made clicking soundsloud in the evening light as sand underfoot gave way gradually to gravel.
　　For a moment, he paused. He seemed to detect a noise-like metal on rock-ahead of him, instead of rock on rock. The sound wasn't repeated, though, and hequickly resumed his ambling ascent.
　　Up the arroyo, too far up to be seen from below, a pebble trickled loose from thestone wall. The tiny figure, which had accidentally dislodged the pebble, retreatedmouse-like into shadow. Two glowing points of light showed under overlappingfolds of brown cape a meter from the narrowing canyon wall.
　　Only the reaction of the unsuspecting robot indicated the presence of the whiningbeam as it struck him. For a moment Artoo Detoo fluoresced eerily in the dimminglight. There was a single short electronic squeak. Then the tripodal supportunbalanced and the tiny automation toppled over onto its back, the lights on its frontblinking on and off erratically from the effects of the paralyzing beam.
　　Three travesties of men scurried out from behind concealing boulders. Theirmotions were more indicative of rodent than humankind, and they stood little tallerthan the Artoo unit. When they saw that the single burst of enervation energy hadimmobilized the robot, they holstered their peculiar weapons. Nevertheless, theyapproached the listless machine cautiously, with the trepidation of hereditary cowards.
　　Their cloaks were thickly coated with dust and sand. Unhealthy red-yellowpupils glowed catlike from the depths of their hoods as they studied their captive.The jawas conversed in low guttural croaks and scrambled analogs of human speech.If, as anthropologists hypothesized, they had ever been human, they had long sincedegenerated past anything resembling the human race.
　　Several more jawas appeared. Together, they succeeded in alternately hoistingand dragging the robot back down the arroyo.
　　At the bottom of canyon-like some monstrous prehistoric beast-was asandcrawler as enormous as its owners and operators were tiny. Several dozenmeters high, the vehicle towered above the ground on multiple treads that were tallerthan a tall man. Its metal epidermis was battered and pitted from with-standinguntold sandstorms.
　　On reaching the crawler, the jawas resumed jabbering among themselves.Artoo Detoo could hear them but failed to comprehend anything. He need not havebeen embarrassed at his failure. If they so wished, only jawas could understandother jawas, for they employed a randomly variable language that drove linguists mad.
　　One of them removed a small disk from a belt pouch and sealed it to the Artoounit's flank. A large tube protruded from one side of the gargantuan vehicle. Theyrolled him over to it and then moved clear. There was a brief moan, the whoosh ofpowerful vacuum, and the small robot was sucked into the bowels of the sandcrawleras neatly as a pea up a straw. This part of the job completed, the jawas engaged inanother bout of jabbering, following which they scurried into the crawler via tubesand ladders, for all the world like a nest of mice returning to their holes.
　　None too gently, the suction tube deposited Artoo in a small cubical. Inaddition to varied piles of broken instruments and outright scrap, a dozen or so robotsof differing shapes and sizes populated the prison. A few were locked in electronicconversation. Others muddled aimlessly about. But when Artoo tumbled into thechamber, one voice burst out in surprise.
　　"Artoo Detoo-it's you, it's you!" called an excited Threepio from the neardarkness. He made his way over to the still immobilized repair unit and embraced itmost unmechanically. Spotting the small disk sealed onto Artoo's side, Threepioturned his gaze thoughtfully down to his own chest, where a similar device hadlikewise been attached.
　　Massive gears, poorly lubricated, started to move. With a groaning andgrinding, the monster sandcrawler turned and lumbered with relentless patience intothe desert night.

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
    

A New Hope
III

　　The burnished conference table was as soulless and unyielding as the mood of theeight Imperial Senators and officers ranged around it. Imperial troopers stood guardat the entrance to the chamber, which was sparse and coldly lit from lights in the tableand walks. One of the youngest of the eight was declaiming. He exhibited theattitude of one who had climbed far and fast by methods best not examined tooclosely. General Tagge did possess a certain twisted genius, but it was only partlythat ability which had lifted him to his present exalted position. Other noisometalents had proven equally efficacious.
　　Though his uniform was as neatly molded and his body as cleans as that ofanyone else in the room, none of the remaining seven cared to touch him. A certainsliminess clung cloyingly to him, a sensation inferred rather than tactile. Despitethis, many respected him. Or feared him.
　　"I tell you, he's gone too far this time," the General was insisting vehemently."This is Sith Lord inflicted on us at the urging of the Emperor will be our undoing.Until the battle station is fully operational, we remain vulnerable.
　　"Some of you still don't seem to realize how well equipped and organized therebel Alliance is. Their vessel are excellent, their pilots better. And they arepropelled by something more powerful than mere engines: this perverse, reactionaryfanaticism of theirs. They're more dangerous than most of you realize."
　　An older officer, with facial scars so deeply engraved that even the best cosmeticsurgery could not fully repair them, shifted nervously in his chair. "Dangerous toyour starfleet, General Tagge, but not to this battle station." Wizened eyes hoppedfrom man to man, traveling around the table. "I happen to think Lord Vader knowswhat he's doing. The rebellion will continue only as long as those cowards have asanctuary, a place where their pilots can relax and their machines can be repaired."
　　Tagge objected. "I beg to differ with you, Romodi. I think the construction ofthis station has more to do with Governor Tarkin's bid for personal power andrecognition than with any justifiable military strategy. Within the Senate the rebelswill continue to increase their support as long-"
　　The sound of the single doorway sliding aside and the guards snapping toattention cut him off. His head turned, as did everyone else's.
　　Two individuals as different in appearance as they were united in objective hadentered the chamber. The nearest to Tagge was a thin, hatchet-faced man with hairand form borrowed from an old broom and the expression of a quiescent piranha.The Grand Moff Tarkin, Governor of numerous outlying Imperial territories, wasdwarfed by broad, armored bulk of Lord Darth Vader.
　　Tagge, unintimidated but subdued, slowly resumed his seat as Tarkin assumedhis place at the end of the conference table. Vader stood next to him, a dominatingpresence behind the Governor's chair. For a minute Tarkin stared directly at Tagge,then glanced away as if he had seen nothing. Tagge fumed but remained silent.
　　As Tarkin's gaze roved around the table a razor-thin smile of satisfactionremained frozen in his features. "The Imperial Senate will no longer be of anyconcern to us, gentlemen. I have just receive word that the Emperor haspermanently dissolved that misguided body."
　　A ripple of astonishment ran through the assembly. "The last remnants," Tarkincontinued, "of the Old Republic have finally been swept away."
　　"This is impossible," Tagge interjected. "How will the Emperor maintaincontrol of the Imperial bureau-crazy?"
　　"Senatorial representation has not been formally abolished, you mustunderstand," Tarkin explained. "It has merely been superseded for the-" he smileda bit more-"duration of the emergency. Regional Governors will now have directcontrol and a free hand in administering their territories. This means that theImperial presence can at last be brought to bear properly on the vacillating worlds ofthe Empire. From now on, fear will keep potentially traitorous local government inline. Fear of the Imperial fleet-and fear of this battle station."
　　"And what of the existing rebellion?" Tagge wanted to know.
　　"If the rebels somehow managed to gain access to a complete technical schemaof this battle station, it is remotely possible that they might be able to locate aweakness susceptible to minor exploitation." Tarkin's smile shifted to a smirk. "Ofcourse, we all know how well guarded, how carefully protected, such vital data is. Itcould not possibly fall into rebel hands."
　　"The technical data to which you are obliquely referring," rumbled Darth Vaderangrily, "will soon be back in our hands. If-"
　　Tarkin shook the Dark Lord off, something no one else at the table would havedared to do. "It is immaterial. Any attack made against this station by the rebelswould be a suicidal gesture, suicidal and useless-regardless of any information theymanaged to obtain. After many long years of secretive construction," he declaredwith evident pleasure, "this station has become the decisive force in this part of theuniverse. Events in this region of the galaxy will no longer be determined by fate,by decree, or by any other agency. They will be decided by this station!"
　　A huge metal-clad hand gestured slightly, and one of the filled cups on the tabledrifted responsively into it. With a slightly admonishing tone the Dark Lordcontinued. "Don't become too proud of this technological terror you've spawned,Tarkin. The ability to destroy a city, a world, a whole system is still insignificantwhen set against the force."
　　"The Force," Tagge sneered. "Don't try to frighten us with your sorcerer's way,Lord Vader. Your sad devotion to that ancient mythology has not helped you toconjure up those stolen tapes, or gifted you with clairvoyance sufficient to locate therebel's hidden fortress. Why, it's enough to make one laugh fit to-"
　　Tagge's eyes abruptly bulged and his hands went to his throat as he began to turna disconcerting shade of blue.
　　"I find," Vader ventured mildly, "this lack of faith disturbing."
　　"Enough of this," Tarkin snapped, distressed. "Vader, release him. Thisbickering among ourselves is pointless."
　　Vader shrugged as if it were of no consequence. Tagge slumped in his seat,rubbing his throat, his wary gaze never leaving the dark giant.
　　"Lord Vader will provide us with the location of the rebel fortress by the timethis station is certified operational," Tarkin declared. "That known, we will proceedto it and destroy it utterly, crushing this pathetic rebellion in one swift stoke."
　　"As the Emperor wills it," Vader added, not without sarcasm, "so shall it be."
　　If any of the powerful men seated around the table found this disrespectful toneobjectionable, a glance at Tagge was sufficient to dissuade them from mentioning it.
　　The dim prison reeked of rancid oil and stale lubricants, a veritable metalliccharnel house. Threepio endured the discomfiting atmosphere as best he could. Itwas a constant battle to avoid being thrown by every unexpected bounce into thewalls or into a fellow machine.
　　To conserve power-and also to avoid the steady stream of complaints from histaller companion-Artoo Detoo had shut down all exterior functions. He lay inertamong a pile of secondary parts, sublimely unconcerned at the moment as to their fate.
　　"Will this never end?" Threepio was moaning as another violent jolt roughlyjostled the inhabitants of the prison. He had already formulated and discarded half ahundred horrible ends. He was certain only that their eventual disposition was sureto be worse than anything he could imagine.
　　Then, quite without warning, something more unsettling than even the mostbattering bump took place. The sandcrawler's whine died, and the vehicle came to ahalt-almost as if in response to Threepio's query. A nervous buzz rose from thosemechanicals who still retained a semblance of sentience as they speculated on theirpresent location and probable fate.
　　At least Threepio was no longer ignorant of his captors or of their likely motives.Local captives had explained the nature of the quasi-human mechanic migrants, thejawas. Traveling in their enormous mobile fortress-homes, they scoured the mostinhospitable regions of Tatooine in search of valuable minerals-and salvageablemachinery. They had never been seen outside of their protective cloaks andsandmasks, so no one knew exactly what they looked like. But they were reputed tobe extraordinarily ugly. Threepio did not have to be convinced.
　　Leaning over his still-motionless companion, he began a steady shaking of thebarrel-like torso. Epidermal sensors were activated on the Artoo unit, and the lightson the front side of the little robot began a sequential awakening.
　　"Wake up, wake up," Threepio urged. "We've stopped someplace." Likeseveral of the other, more imaginative robots, his eyes were warily scanning metalwalls, expecting a hidden panel to slide aside at any moment and a giant mechanicalarm to come probing and fumbling for him.
　　"No doubt about it, we're doomed," he recited mournfully as Artoo rightedhimself, returning to full activation. "Do you think they'll melt us down?" Hebecame silent for several minutes, then added, "It's this waiting that gets to me."Abruptly the far wall of the chamber slid aside and the blinding white glare of aTatooine morning rushed in on them. Threepio's sensitive photoreceptors were hardpressed to adjust in time to prevent serious damage.
　　Several of the repulsive-looking jawas scrambled agilely into the chamber, stilldressed in the same swathing and filth Threepio had observed on them before.Using hard weapons of an unknown design, they prodded at the machines. Certainof them, Threepio noted with a mental swallow, did not stir.
　　Ignoring the immobile ones, the jawas herded those still capable of movementoutside, Artoo and Threepio among them. Both robots found themselves part of anuneven mechanical line.
　　Shielding his eyes against the glare, Threepio saw that five of them werearranged alongside the huge sandcrawler. Thoughts of escape did not enter his mind.Such a concept was utterly alien to a mechanical. The more intelligent a robot was,the more abhorrent and unthinkable the concept. Besides, had he tried to escape,built-in sensors would have detected the critical logic malfunction and melted everycircuit in his brain.
　　Instead, he studied the small domes and vaporators that indicated the presence ofa larger underground human homestead. Though he was unfamiliar with this type ofconstruction, all signs pointed to a modest, if isolated, habitation. Thoughts of beingdismembered for parts or slaving in some high-temperature mine slowly faded. Hisspirits rose correspondingly.
　　"Maybe this won't be so bad after all," he murmured hopefully. "If we canconvince these bipedal vermin to unload us here, we may enter into sensible humanservice again instead of being melted into slag."
　　Artoo's sole reply was a noncommittal chirp. Both machines became silent asthe jawas commenced scurrying around them, striving to straighten one poor machinewith a badly bent spine, to disguise a dent or scrape with liquid and dust.
　　As two of them bustled about, working on his sand-coated skin, Threepio foughtto stifle an expression of disgust. One of his many human-analog functions was theability to react naturally to offensive odors. Apparently hygiene was unknownamong the jawas. But he was certain no good would come of pointing this out tothem.
　　Small insects drifted in clouds about the faces of the jawas, who ignored them.Apparently the tiny individualized plagues were regarded as just a different sort ofappendage, like an extra arm or leg.
　　So intent was Threepio on his observation that he failed to notice the two figuresmoving toward them from the region of the largest dome. Artoo had to nudge himslightly before he looked up.
　　The first man wore an air of grim, semi-perpetual exhaustion, sandblasted intohis face by too many years of arguing with a hostile environment. His graying hairwas frozen in tangled twists like gypsum helicites. Dust frosted his face, clothes,hands, and thoughts. But the body, if not the spirit, was still powerful.
　　Proportionately dwarfed by his uncle's wrestler-like body, Luke strode slump-shouldered in his shadow, his present attitude one of dejection rather than exhaustion.He had a great deal on his mind, and it had very little to do with farming. Mostly itinvolved the rest of his life, and the commitment made by his best friend who hadrecently departed beyond the blue sky above to enter a harsher, yet more rewardingcareer.
　　The bigger man stopped before the assembly and entered into a peculiar squeakydialogue with the jawa in charge. When they wished it, the jawas could beunderstood.
　　Luke stood nearby, listening indifferently. Then he shuffled along behind hisuncle as the latter began inspecting the five machines, pausing only to mutter anoccasional word or two to his nephew. It was hard to pay attention, even though heknew he ought to be learning.
　　"Luke-oh, Luke!" a voice called.
　　Turning away from the conversation, which consisted of the lead jawa extollingthe unmatched virtues of all five machines and his uncle countering with derision,Luke walked over to the near edge of the subterranean courtyard and peered down.
　　A stout woman with the expression of a misplaced sparrow was busy workingamong decorative plants. She looked up at him. "Be sure and tell Owen that if hebuys a translator to make sure it speaks Bocce, Luke."
　　Turning, Luke looked back over his shoulder and studied the motley collection oftired machines. "It looks like we don't have much of a choice," he called back downto her, "but I'll remind him anyway."
　　She nodded up at him and he turned to rejoin his uncle.
　　Apparently Owen Lars had already come to a decision, having settled on a smallsemi-agricultural robot. This one was similar in shape to Artoo Detoo, save that itsmultiple subsidiary arms were tipped with different functions. At an order it hadstepped out of the line and was wobbling along behind Owen and the temporarilysubdued jawa.
　　Proceeding to the end of the line, the farmer's eyes narrowed as he concentratedon the sand-scoured but still flashy bronze finish of the tall, humanoid Threepio.
　　"I presume you function," he grumbled at the robot. "Do you know customsand protocol?"
　　"Do I know protocol?" Threepio echoed as the farmer looked him up and down.Threepio was determined to embarrass the jawa when it came to selling his abilities."Do I know protocol! Why, it's my primary function. I am also well-"
　　"Don't need a protocol 'droid," the farmer snapped dryly.
　　"I don't blame you, sir," Threepio rapidly agreed. "I couldn't be more inagreement. What could be more of a wasteful luxury in a climate like this? Forsomeone of your interests, sir, a protocol 'droid would be a useless waste of money.No, sir-versatility is my middle name. See Vee Threepio-Vee for versatility-atyour service. I've been programmed for over thirty secondary functions that requireonly´"
　　"I need," the farmer broke in, demonstrating imperious disregard for Threepio'sas yet unenumerated secondary functions, "a 'droid that knows something aboutbinary language of independently programmable moisture vaporators."
　　"Vaporators! We are both in luck," Threepio countered. "My first post-primary assignment was in programming binary load lifters. Very similar inconstruction and memory-function to your vaporators. You could almost say´"
　　Luke tapped his uncle on the shoulder and whispered something in his ear.His uncle nodded, then looked back at the attentive Threepio again.
　　"Do you speak Bocce?"
　　"Of course, sir," Threepio replied, confident for a change with a wholly honestanswer. "It's like a second language to me. "I'm as fluent in Bocce as-"
　　the farmer appeared determined never to allow him to conclude a sentence."Shut up." Owen Lars looked down at the jawa. "I'll take this one, too."
　　"Shutting up, sir," responded Threepio quickly, hard put to conceal his glee atbeing selected.
　　"Take them down to the garage, Luke," his uncle instructed him. "I want you tohave both of them cleaned up by suppertime."
　　Luke looked askance at his uncle. "But I was going into Tosche station to pickup some new power converters and´"
　　"Don't lie to me, Luke," his uncle warned him sternly. "I don't mind youwasting time with your idle friends, but only after you've finished your chores. Nowhop to it-and before supper, mind."
　　Downcast, Luke directed his words irritably to Threepio and the smallagricultural robot. He knew better than to argue with his uncle.
　　"Follow me, you two." They started for the garage as Owen entered into pricenegotiations with the jawa.
　　Other jawas were leading the three remaining machines back into thesandcrawler when something let out an almost pathetic beep. Luke turned to see aArtoo unit breaking formation and starting toward him. It was immediatelyrestrained by a jawa wielding a control device that activated the disk sealed on themachine's front plate.
　　Luke studied the rebellious 'droid curiously. Threepio started to say something,considered the circumstances and thought better of it. Instead, he remained silent,staring straight ahead.
　　A minute later, something pinged sharply nearby. Glancing down, Luke sawthat a head plate had popped off the top of the agricultural 'droid. A grinding noisewas coming from within. A second later the machine was throwing internalcomponents all over the sandy ground.
　　Leaning close, Luke peered inside the expectorating mechanical. He called out,"Uncle Owen! The servomotor-central on this cultivator unit is shot. Look´"He reached in, tried to adjust the device, and pulled away hurriedly when it began awild sparking. The odor of crisped insulation and corroded circuitry filled the cleardesert air with a pungency redolent of mechanized death.
　　Owen Lars glared down at the nervous jawa. "What kind of junk are you tryingto push on us?"
　　The jawa responded loudly, indignantly, while simultaneously taking a couple ofprecautionary steps away from the big human. He was distressed that the man wasbetween him and the soothing safely of the sandcrawler.
　　Meanwhile, Artoo Detoo had scuttled out of the group of machines being ledback toward the mobile fortress. Doing so turned out to be simple enough, since allthe jawas had their attention focused on the argument between their leader and Luke'suncle.
　　Lacking sufficient armature for wild gesticulation, the Artoo unit suddenly letout a high whistle, then broke it off when it was apparent he had gained Threepio'sattention.
　　Tapping Luke gently on the shoulder, the tall 'droid whispered conspiratoriallyinto his ear. "If I might say so, young sir, that Artoo unit is a real bargain. In topcondition. I don't believe these creatures have any idea what good shape he's reallyin. Don't let all the sand and dust deceive you."
　　Luke was in the habit of making instant decisions-for good or bad-anyway."Uncle Owen!" he called.
　　Breaking off the argument without taking his attention from the jawa, his uncleglanced quickly at him. Luke gestured toward Artoo Detoo. "We don't want anytrouble. What about swapping this-" he indicated the burned-outagricultural 'droid-"for that one?"
　　The older man studied the Artoo unit professionally, then considered the jawas.Though inherently cowards, the tiny desert scavengers could be pushed too far. Thesandcrawler could flatten the homestead-at the risk of inciting the humancommunity to lethal vengeance.
　　Faced with a no-win situation for wither side if he pressed too hard, Owenresumed the argument for show's sake before gruffly assenting. The head jawaconsented reluctantly to the trade, and both sides breathed a mental sigh of relief thathostilities had been avoided. While the jawa bowed and whined with impatientgreed, Owen paid him off.
　　Meanwhile, Luke had led the two robots toward an opening in the dry ground.A few seconds later they were striding down a ramp kept clear of drifting sand byelectrostatic repellers.
　　"Don't you ever forget this," Threepio muttered to Artoo, leaning over thesmaller machine. "Why I stick my neck out for you, when all you ever bring me istrouble, is beyond my capacity to comprehend."
　　The passage widened into garage proper, which was cluttered with tools andsections of farming machinery. Many looked heavily used, some to the point ofcollapse. But the lights were comforting to both 'droid, and there was a hominess tothe chamber which hinted at a tranquillity not experienced by either machine for along time. Near the center of the garage was a large tub, and the aroma drifting fromit made Threepio's principal olfactory sensors twitch.
　　Luke grinned, noting the robot's reaction. "Yes, it's a lubrication bath." Heeyed the tall bronze robot appraisingly. "And from the looks of it, you could useabout a week's submergence. But we can't afford that so you'll have to settle for anafternoon." Then Luke turned his attention to Artoo Detoo, walking up to him andflipping open a panel that shielded numerous gauges.
　　"As for you," he continued, with a whistle of surprise, "I don't know how you'vekept running. Not surprising, knowing the jawas' reluctance to part with any erg-fraction they don't have to. It's recharge time for you." He gestured toward a largepower unit.
　　Artoo Detoo followed Luke's gesture, then beeped once and waddled over theboxy construction. Finding the proper cord, he automatically flipped open a paneland plugged the triple prongs into his face.
　　Threepio had walked over to the large cistern, which was filled almost full witharomatic cleansing oil. With a remarkably humanlike sigh he lowered himselfslowly into the tank.
　　"You two behave yourselves," Luke cautioned them as he moved to a small two-man sky hopper. A powerful little suborbital spacecraft, it rested in the hangarsection of the garage-workshop. "I've got work of my own to do."
　　Unfortunately, Luke's energies were still focused on his farewell encounter withBiggs, so that hours later he had finished few of his chores. Thinking about hisfriend's departure, Luke was running a caressing hand over the damaged port fin ofthe 'hopper-the fin he had damaged while running down an imaginary Tie fighter inthe wrenching twists and turns of a narrow canyon. That was when the projectingledge had clipped him as effectively as an energy beam.
　　Abruptly something came to a boil within him. With atypical violence he threwa power wrench across a worktable nearby. "It just isn't fair!" he declared to no onein particular. His voice dropped disconsolately. "Biggs is right. I'll never get outof here. He's planning rebellion against the Empire, and I'm trapped on a blight of afarm."
　　"I beg your pardon, sir."
　　Luke spun, startled, but it was only the tall 'droid, Threepio. The contrast in therobot was striking compared with Luke's initial sight of him. Bronze-colored alloygleamed in the overhead lights of the garage, cleaned of pits and dust by the powerfuloils.
　　"Is there anything I might do to help?" the robot asked solicitously.
　　Luke studied the machine, and as he did so some of his anger drained away.There was no point in yelling cryptically at a robot.
　　"I doubt it," he replied, "unless you can alter time and speed up the harvest. Orelse teleport me off this sandpile under Uncle Owen's nose."
　　Sarcasm was difficult for even an extremely sophisticated robot to detect, soThreepio considered the question objectively before finally replying, "I don't think so,sir. I'm only a third-degree 'droid and not very knowledgeable about such things astransatomic physics." Suddenly, the events of the past couple of days seemed tocatch up with him all at once. "As a matter of fact, young sir," Threepio went onwhile looking around him with fresh vision, "I'm not even sure which planet I'm on."
　　Luke chuckled sardonically and assumed a mocking pose. "If there's brightcenter to this universe, you're on the world farthest from it."
　　"Yes, Luke sir."
　　The youth shook his head irritably. "Never mind the 'sir'-it's just Luke.And this world is called Tatooine."
　　Threepio nodded slightly. "Thank you, Luke s-Luke. I am See Threepio,human-droid relations specialist." He jerked a casual metal thumb back toward therecharge unit. "That is my companion, Artoo Detoo."
　　"Pleased to meet you, Threepio," Luke said easily. "You too, Artoo."Walking across the garage, he checked a gauge on the smaller machine's front panel,plugging the charge cord he saw something, which made him frown and lean close.
　　"Something wrong, Luke?" Threepio inquired.
　　Luke went to a nearby tool wall and selected a small many-armed device. "Idon't know yet, Threepio."
　　Returning to the recharger, Luke bent over Artoo and began scraping at severalbumps in the small 'droid's top with a chromed pick. Occasionally he jerked backsharply as bits of corrosion were flicked into the air by the tiny tool.
　　Threepio watched, interested, as Luke worked. "There's a lot of strange carbonscoring here of a seen a lot of action out of the ordinary."
　　"Indeed, sir," Threepio admitted, forgetting to drop the honorific. This timeLuke was too absorbed elsewhere to correct him. "Sometimes I'm amazed we're inas good shape as we are." He added as an afterthought, while still shying away fromthe thrust of Luke's question, "What with the rebellion and all."
　　Despite his caution, it seemed to Threepio that he must have given somethingaway, for an almost jawa-like blaze appeared in Luke's eyes. "You know about therebellion against the Empire?" he demanded.
　　"In a way," Threepio confessed reluctantly. "The rebellion was responsible forour coming into your service. We are refugees, you se." He did not add fromwhere.
　　Not that Luke appeared to care. "Refugees!" Then I did see a space battle!"He rambled on rapidly, excited. "Tell me where you've been-in how manyencounters. How is the rebellion going? Does the Empire take it seriously? Haveyou seen many ships destroyed?"
　　"A bit slower, please, sir," Threepio pleaded. "You misinterpret our status.We were innocent bystanders. Our involvement with the rebellion was of the mostmarginal nature.
　　"As to battles, we were in several, I think. It is difficult to tell when one is notdirectly in contact with the actual battle machinery." He shrugged neatly. "Beyondthat, there is not much to say. Remember, sir, I am little more than a cosmeticizedinterpreter and not very good at telling stories or relating histories, and even lessproficient at embellishing them. I am a very literal machine."
　　Luke turned away, disappointed, and returned to his cleaning of Artoo Detoo.Additional scraping turned up something puzzling enough to demand his full attention.A small metal fragment was tightly lodged between two bar conduits that wouldnormally form a linkage. Setting down the delicate pick, Luke switched to a largerinstrument.
　　"Well, my little friend," he murmured, "you've got something jammed in herereal good." As he pushed and pried Luke directed half his attention to Threepio."Were you on a star freighter or was it-"
　　metal gave way with a powerful crack, and the recoil sent Luke tumbling headover heels. Getting to his feet, he started to curse-then froze, motionless.
　　The front of the Artoo unit had begun to glow, exuding a three-dimensionalimage less than one-third of a meter square but precisely defined. The portraitformed within the box was so exquisite that in a couple of minutes Luke discoveredhe was out of breath-because he had forgotten to breath.
　　Despite a superficial sharpness, the image flickered and jiggled unsteadily, as ifthe recording had been made and installed with haste. Luke stared at the foreigncolors being projected into the prosaic atmosphere of the garage and started to form aquestion. But it was never finished. The lips on the figure moved, and the girlspoke-or rather, seemed to speak. Luke knew the aural accompaniment wasgenerated somewhere within Artoo Detoo's squat torso.
　　"Obi-wan Kenobi," the voice implored huskily, "help me! You're my onlyremaining hope." A burst of static dissolved the face momentarily. Then itcoalesced again, and once more the voice repeated, "Obi-wan Kenobi, you're my onlyremaining hope."
　　With a raspy hum the hologram continued. Luke sat perfectly still for a longmoment, considering what he was seeing, then he blinked and directed his words tothe Artoo unit.
　　"What's this all about, Artoo Detoo?"
　　the stubby 'droid shifted slightly, the cubish portrait shifting with him, andbeeped what sounded vaguely like a sheepish reply.
　　Threepio appeared as mystified as Luke. "What is that?" he inquired sharply,gesturing at the speaking portrait and then at Luke. "You were asked a question.What and who is that, and how are you originating it-and why?"
　　The Artoo unit generated a beep of surprise, for all the world as if just noticingthe hologram. This was followed by a whistling stream of information.
　　Threepio digested the data, tried to frown, couldn't, and strove to convey his ownconfusion via the tone of his voice. "He insist it's nothing, sir. Merely amalfunction-old data. A tape that should have been erased but was missed. Heinsists we pay it no mind."
　　That was like telling Luke to ignore a cache of Durindfires he might stumbleover in the desert. "Who is she?" he demanded, staring enraptured at the hologram."She's beautiful."
　　"I really don't know who she is," Threepio confessed honestly. "I think shemight have been a passenger on our last voyage. From what I recall, she was apersonage of some importance. This might have something to do with the fact thatour Captain was attach└ to-"
　　Luke cut him off, savoring the way sensuous lips formed and reformed thesentence fragment. "Is there any more to this recording? It sounds like it'sincomplete." Getting to his feet, Luke reached out for the Artoo unit.
　　The robot moved backward and produced whistles of such frantic concern thatLuke hesitated and held off reaching for the internal controls.
　　Threepio was shocked. "Behave yourself, Artoo," he finally chastised hiscompanion. "You're going to get us into trouble." He had vision of the both ofthem being packed up as uncooperative and shipped back to the jawas, which wasenough to make him imitate a shudder.
　　"It's all right-he's our master now." Threepio indicated Luke. "You cantrust him." I feel that he has our best interests in mind."
　　Detoo appeared to hesitate, uncertain. Then he whistled and beeped a longcomplexity at his friend.
　　"Well?" Luke prompted impatiently.
　　Threepio paused before replying. "He says that he is the property of one Obi-wan Kenobi, a resident of this world. Of this very region, in fact. The sentencefragment we are hearing is part of a private message intended for this person."
　　Threepio shook his head slowly. "Quite frankly, sir, I don't know what he'stalking about. Our last master was Captain Colton. I never heard Artoo mention aprior master. I've certainly never heard of an Obi-wan Kenobi. But with all we'vebeen through," he concluded apologetically, "I'm afraid his logic circuits have gottena bit scrambled. He's become decidedly eccentric at times." And while Lukeconsidered this turn of events, Threepio took the opportunity to throw Artoo a furiouslook of warning.
　　"Obi-wan Kenobi," Luke recited thoughtfully. His expression suddenlybrightened. "Say´I wonder if he could be referring to old Ben Kenobi."
　　"Begging your pardon," Threepio gulped, astonished beyond measure, "but youactually know of such a person?"
　　"Not exactly," he admitted in a more subdued voice. "I don't know anyonenamed Obi-wan-but old Ben lives somewhere out on the fringe of the Western DuneSea. He's kind of a local character-a hermit. Uncle Owen and a few of the otherfarmers say he's a sorcerer.
　　"He comes around once in a while to trade things. I hardly ever talk to him,though. My uncle usually runs him off." He paused and glanced across at thesmall robot again. "But I never heard that old Ben owned a 'droid of any kind. Atleast, none that I ever heard tell of."
　　Luke's gaze was drawn irresistibly back to the hologram. "I wonder who she is.She must be important-especially if what you told me just now is true, Threepio.She sounds and looks as if she's in some kind of trouble. Maybe the message isimportant. We ought to hear the rest of it."
　　He reached again for the Artoo's internal controls, and the robot scurriedbackward again, squeaking a blue streak.
　　"He says there's a restraining separator bolt that's circuiting out his self-motivation components." Threepio translated. "He suggests that if you move thebolt he might be able to repeat the entire message," Threepio finished uncertainly.When Luke continued to stare at the portrait, Threepio added, more loudly "Sir!"
　　Luke shook himself. "What´? Oh, yes." He considered the request.Then he moved and peered into the open panel. This time Artoo didn't retreat.
　　"I see it, I think. Well, I guess you're too small to run away from me if I takethis off. I wonder what someone would be sending a message to old Ben for."
　　Selecting the proper tool, Luke reached down into the exposed circuitry andpopped the restraining bolt free. The first noticeable result of this action was thatthe portrait disappeared.
　　Luke stood back. "There, now." There was an uncomfortable pause duringwhich the hologram showed no sign of returning. "Where did she go?" Lukefinally prompted. "Make her come back. Play the entire message, Artoo Detoo."
　　An innocent-sounding beep came from the robot. Threepio appearedembarrassed and nervous as he translated. "He said. 'What message?' "
　　Threepio's attention turned half angrily to his companion. "What message?You know what message! The one you just played a fragment of for us. The oneyou're hauling around inside tour recalcitrant, rust-ridden innards, you stubborn bunkof junk!"
　　Artoo sat and hummed softly to himself.
　　"I'm sorry, sir," Threepio said slowly, "but he shows signs of having developedan alarming flutter in his obedience-rational module. Perhaps if we-"
　　a voice from down a corridor interrupted him. "Luke´oh, Luke-come todinner!"
　　Luke hesitated, then rose and turned away from the puzzling little 'droid."Okay," he called, "I'm coming. Aunt Beru!" He lowered his voice as he spoke toThreepio. "See what you can do with him. I'll be back soon." Tossing the just-removed restraining bolt on the workbench, he hurried from the chamber,
　　As soon as the human was gone, Threepio whirled on his shorter companion."You'd better consider playing that whole recording for him," he growled, withsuggestive nod toward a workbench laden with dismembered machine parts."Otherwise he's liable to take up that cleaning pick again and go digging for it. Hemight not be too careful what he cuts through if he believes you're deliberatelywithholding something from him."
　　A plaintive beep came from Artoo.
　　"No," Threepio responded, "I don't think he likes you at all."
　　A second beep failed to alter the stern tone in the taller robot's voice. "No, Idon't like you, either."

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
    

A New Hope
IV

　　Luke's Aunt Beru was filling a pitcher with blue liquid from a refrigerated container.Behind her, in the dining area, a steady buzz of conversation reached to the kitchen. 
　　She sighed sadly. The mealtime discussions between her husband and Lukehad grown steadily more acrimonious as the boy's restlessness pulled him indirections other than farming. Directions for which Owen, a stolid man of the soil ifthere ever was one, had absolutely no sympathy.
　　Returning the bulk container to the refrigerator unit, she placed the pitcher on atray and hurried back to the dining room. Beru was not a brilliant woman, but shepossessed an instinctive understanding of her important position in this household.She functioned like the damping rods in a nuclear reactor. As long as she waspresent, Owen and Luke would continue to generate a lot of heat, but if she was out oftheir presence for too long-boom!
　　Condenser units built into the bottom of each plate kept the food on the dining-room table hot as she hurried in. immediately, both men lowered their voices tosomething civilized and shifted the subject. Beru pretended not to notice the change.
　　"I think that Artoo unit might have been stolen, Uncle Owen," Luke was saying,as if that had been the topic of conversation all along.
　　His uncle helped himself to the milk pitcher, mumbling his reply around amouthful of food. "The jawas have a tendency to pick up anything that's not tieddown, Luke, but remember, they're basically afraid of their own shadows. To resortto outright theft, they'd have to have considered the consequences of being pursuedand punished. Theoretically, their minds shouldn't be capable of that. What makesyou think the 'droid is stolen?"
　　"For one thing, it's in awfully good shape for a discard. It generated ahologram recording while I was cleaning-" Luke tried to conceal his horror at theslip. He added hastily. "But that's not important. The reason I think it might bestolen is because it claims to be the property of someone it calls Obi-wan Kenobi."
　　 Maybe something in the food, or perhaps the milk, caused Luke's uncle to gag.Then again, it might have been an expression of disgust, which was Owen's way ofindicating his opinion of that peculiar personage. In any case, he continued eatingwithout looking up at his nephew.
　　Luke pretended the display of graphic dislike had never happened. "I thought,"he continued determinedly, "it might have meant old Ben. The first name is different,but the last is identical."
　　When his uncle steadfastly maintained his silence, Luke prompted him directly."Do you know who he's talking about, Uncle Owen?"
　　Surprisingly, his uncle looked uncomfortable instead of angry. "It's nothing,"he mumbled, still not meeting Luke's gaze. "A name from another time." Hesquirmed nervously in his seat. "A name that can only mean trouble."
　　Luke refused to heed the implied warning and pressed on. "Is it someonerelated to old Ben, then? I didn't know he had any relatives."
　　"You stay away from that old wizard, he hear me!" his uncle exploded,awkwardly substituting threat for reason.
　　"Owen´" Aunt Beru started to interject gently, but the big farmer cut her offsternly.
　　"Now, this is important, Beru." He turned his attention back to his nephew."I've told you about Kenobi before. He's a crazy old man; he'd dangerous and fullof mischief, and he's the best left well along."
　　Beru's pleading gaze caused him to quiet somewhat. "That 'droid has nothingto do with him. Couldn't have," he grumbled half to himself. "Recording-huh!Well, tomorrow I want you to take the unit into Anchorhead and have its memoryflushed."
　　Snorting, Owen bent to his half-eaten meal with determination. "That will bethe end of this foolishness. I don't care where that machine thinks it came from. Ipaid hard credit for it, and it belongs to us now."
　　"But suppose it does belong to someone else" Luke wondered. "What if thisObi-wan person comes looking for his 'droid?"
　　An expression between sorrow and a sneer crossed his uncle's seamed face at aremembrance. "He won't. I don't think that man exists anymore. He died aboutthe same time as your father." A huge mouthful of hot food was shoveled inward."Now forget about it."
　　"Then it was a real person," Luke murmured, staring down at his plate. Headded slowly, "Did he know my father?"
　　"I said forge about it." Owen snapped. "Your only worry as far as thosetwo 'droids are concerned is having them ready for work tomorrow. Remember, thelast of our saving is tied up in those two. Wouldn't even have bought them if itwasn't so near harvest." He shook a spoon at his nephew. "In the morning I wantyou to have them working with the irrigation units up on the south ridge.
　　"You know," Luke replied distantly, "I think these 'droids are going to work outfine. In fact, I-" He hesitated, shooting his uncle a surreptitious glare. "I wasthinking about our agreement about me staying on for another season."
　　His uncle failed to react, so Luke rushed on before his nerve failed. "If thesenew 'droids do work out, I want to transmit my application to enter the Academy fornext year."
　　Owen scowled, trying to hide his displeasure with food. "You mean, you wantto transmit application next year-after the harvest."
　　"You have more than enough 'droids now, and they're in good condition.They'll last."
　　"'droids, yes," his uncle agreed, "but 'droids can't replace a man, Luke. Youknow that. The harvest is when I need you the most. It's just for one more seasonafter this one." He looked away, bluster and anger gone now.
　　Luke toyed with his food, not eating, saying nothing.
　　"Listen," his uncle told him, "for the first time we've got a chance for a realfortune. We'll make enough to hire some extra hands for next time. Not 'droids-people. Then you can go to the Academy." He fumbled over words, unaccustomedto pleading. "I need you here, Luke. You understand that, don't you?"
　　"It's another year," his nephew objected sullenly. "Another year."
　　"How many times had he heard that before? How many times had theyrepeated this identical charade with the same result?
　　Convinced once more that Luke had come round to his way of thinking. Owenshrugged the objection off. "Time will pass before you know it"
　　Abruptly Luke rose, shoving his barely touched plate of food aside. "That'swhat you said last year when Biggs left." He spun and half ran from the room.
　　"Where are you going, Luke?" his aunt yelled worriedly after him.
　　Luke's reply was bleak, bitter. "Looks like I'm going nowhere." Then headded, out of consideration for his aunt's sensibilities, "I have to finish cleaningthose 'droids if they're going to be ready to work tomorrow."
　　Silence hung in the air of the dining room after Luke departed. Husband andwife ate mechanically. Eventually Aunt Beru stopped shoving her food around herplate, looked up, and pointed out earnestly, "Owen, you can't keep him here forever.Most of his friends are gone, the people he grew up with. The Academy means somuch to him."
　　Listlessly her husband replied, "I'll make it up to him next year. I promise.We'll have money-or maybe, the year after that."
　　"Luke's just not a farmer, Owen," she continued firmly. "He never will be, nomatter how hard you try to make him one." She shook her head slowly. "He's gottoo much of his father in him."
　　For the first time all evening Owen Lars looked thoughtful as well as concernedas he gazed down the passage Luke had taken. "That's what I'm afraid of," hewhispered.
　　Luke had gone topside. He stood on the sand watching the double sunset asfirst one and then the other of Tatooine's twin suns sank slowly behind the distantrange of dunes. In the fading light the sands turned gold, russet, and flaming red-orange before advancing night put the bright colors to sleep for another day. Soon,for the first time, those sands would blossom with food plants. This formerwasteland would see and eruption of green.
　　The thought ought to have sent a thrill of anticipation through Luke. He shouldhave been as flushed with excitement as his uncle was whenever he described thecoming harvest. Instead, Luke felt nothing but a vast indifferent emptiness. Noteven the prospect of having a lot of money for the first time in his life excited him.What was there to do with money in Anchorhead-anywhere on Tatooine, for thatmatter?
　　Part of him, an increasingly large part, was growing more and more restless atremaining unfulfilled. This was not an uncommon feeling in youths his age, but forreasons Luke did not understand it was much stronger in him than in any of hisfriends.
　　As the night cold came creeping over the sand and up his legs, he brushed thegrit from his trousers and descended into the garage. Maybe working on the 'droidswould bury some of the remorse a little deeper in his mind. A quick survey of thechamber showed no movement. Neither of the new machines was in sight.Frowning slightly, Luke took a small control box from his belt and activated a coupleof switches set into the plastic.
　　A low him came from the box. The caller produced the taller of the two robots,Threepio. In fact, he gave a yell of surprise as he jumped up behind the skyhopper.
　　Luke started toward him, openly puzzled. "What are you hiding back therefor?"
　　The robot came stumbling around the prow of the craft, he attitude one ofdesperation. It occurred to Luke then that despite his activating the caller, the Artoounit was still nowhere to be seen.
　　The reason for his absence-or something related to it-came pouring unbiddenfrom Threepio. "It wasn't my fault," the robot begged frantically. "Please don'tdeactivate me! I told him not to go, but he's faulty. He must be malfunctioning.Something has totally boiled his logic circuits. He kept babbling on about some sortof mission, sir. I never heard a robot with delusions of grandeur before. Suchthings shouldn't even be within the cogitative theory units of one that's as basic as anArtoo unit, and´"
　　"You mean´?" Luke started to gape.
　　"Yes, sir´he's gone."
　　"And I removed his restraining coupling myself," Luke muttered slowly.Already he could visualize his uncle's face. The last of their savings tied up inthese 'droids, he had said.
　　Racing out of the garage, Luke hunted for non-existent reasons why the Artoounit should go berserk. Threepio followed on his heels.
　　From a small ridge which formed the highest point close by the homestead, Lukehad a panoramic view of the surrounding desert. Bringing out the preciousmacrobinoculars, he scanned the rapidly darkening horizons for something small,metallic, three-legged, and out of its mechanical mind.
　　Threepio fought his way up through the sand to stand beside Luke. "That Artoounit has always caused nothing but trouble," he groaned. "Astromech 'droids arebecoming too iconoclastic even for me to understand, sometimes."
　　The binoculars finally came down, and Luke commented matter-of-factly, "Well,he's nowhere in sight." He kicked furiously at the ground. "Damn it-how could Ihave been so stupid, letting it trick me into removing that restrainer! Uncle Owen'sgoing to kill me."
　　"Begging your pardon, sir," ventured a hopeful Threepio, visions of jawasdancing in his head, "but can't we go after him?" Luke turned. Studiously he examined the wall of black advancing toward them"Not at night. It's too dangerous with all the raiders around. I'm not too concernedabout the jawas, but sandpeople´no, not in the dark. We'll have to wait untilmorning to try to track him"
　　A shout rose from the homestead below. "Luke-Luke, are you finished withthose 'droids yet? I'm turning down the power for the night."
　　"All right!" Luke responded, sidestepping the question. "I'll be down in a fewminutes, Uncle Owen!" Turning, he took one last look at the vanished horizon."Boy, am I in for it!" he muttered. "That little 'droid's going to get me in a lot oftrouble."
　　"Oh, he excells at that, sir." Threepio confirmed with mock cheerfulness. Lukethrew him a sour look, and together they turned and descended into the garage.
　　"Luke´Luke!" Still rubbing the morning sleep from his eyes, Owen glancedfrom side to side, loosening his neck muscles. "Where could that boy be loafingnow?" he wondered aloud at the lack of response. There was no sign of movementin the homestead, and he had already checked above.
　　"Luke!" he yelled again. Luke, luke, luke´the name echoed teasing back athim from the homestead walls. Turning angrily, he stalked back into the kitchen,where Beru was preparing breakfast.
　　"Have you seen Luke this morning?" he asked as softly as he could manage.
　　She glance briefly at him, then returned to her cooking. "Yes. He said he hadsome things to do before he started out to the south ridge this morning, so he leftearly."
　　"Before breakfast?" Owen frowned worriedly. "That's not like him. Did hetake the new 'droids with him?"
　　"I think so. I am sure I saw at least one of them with him."
　　"Well," Owen mused, uncomfortable but with nothing to really hangimprecations on, "he'd better have those ridge units repaired by midday or there'll behell to pay."
　　An unseen face shielded by smooth white metal emerged from the half-buriedlife pod that now formed the backbone of a dune slightly higher than its neighbors.The voice sounded efficient, but tired.
　　"Nothing," the inspecting trooper muttered to his several companions. "Notapes, and no sign of habitation."
　　Powerful handguns lowered at the information that the pod was deserted. Oneof the armored men turned, calling out to an officer standing some distance away."This is definitely the pod that cleared the rebel ship, sir, but there's nothing onboard."
　　"Yet it set down intact," the officer was murmuring to himself. "It could havedone so on automatics, but if it was a true malfunction, then they shouldn't have beenengaged." Something didn't make sense.
　　"Here's why there's nothing on board and no hint of life, sir," a voice declared.
　　The officer turned and strode several paces to where another trooper waskneeling in the sand. He held up an object for the officer's inspection. It shone inthe sun.
　　"'Droid plating," the officer observed after a quick glance at the metal fragment.Superior and underling exchanged a significant glance. Then their eyes turnedsimultaneously to the high mesas off to the north.
　　Gravel and fine sand formed a gritty fog beneath the landspeeder as it slid acrossthe rippling wasteland of Tatooine on humming repulsors. Occasionally the craftwould jog slightly as it encountered a dip or slight rise, to return to its smooth passageas its pilot compensated for the change in terrain.
　　Luke leaned back in the seat, luxuriating in unaccustomed relaxation as Threepioskillfully directed the powerful landcraft around dunes and rocky outcrops. "Youhandle a landspeeder pretty well, for a machine," he noted admiringly.
　　"Thank you, sir," a gratified Threepio responded, his eyes never moving from thelandscape ahead. "I was not lying to your uncle when I claimed versatility as mymiddle name. In fact, on occasion I have been called upon to perform unexpectedfunctions in circumstances which would have appalled my designers."
　　Something pinged behind them, then pinged again.
　　Luke frowned and popped the speeder canopy. A few moments of digging inthe motor casing eliminated the metallic bark.
　　"How's that?" he yelled forward.
　　Threepio signaled that the adjustment was satisfactory. Luke turned back intothe cockpit and closed the canopy over them again. Silently he brushed his wind-whipped hair back out of his eyes as his attention returned to the dry desert ahead ofthem.
　　"Old Ben Kenobi is supposed to live out in this general direction. Even thoughnobody knows exactly where, I don't see how that Artoo unit could have come this farso quickly." His expression was downcast. "We must have missed him back in thedunes somewhere. He could be anywhere out here. And Uncle Owen must bewondering why I haven't called in from the south ridge by now."
　　Threepio considered a moment, then ventured, "Would it help, sir, if you toldhim that it was my fault?"
　　Luke appeared to brighten at the suggestion. "Sure´he needs you twice asmuch now. Probably he'll only deactivate you for a day or so, or give you a partialmemory flush."
　　Deactivate? Memory flush? Threepio added hastily, "On second thought, sir,Artoo would still be around if you hadn't removed his restraining module."
　　But something more important than fixing responsibility for the little robot'sdisappearance was on Luke's mind at the moment. "Wait a minute," he advisedThreepio as he stared fixedly at the instrument panel. "There's something deadahead on the metal scanner. Can't distinguish outlines at this distance, but judgingby size alone, it could be our wandering 'droid. Hit it."
　　The landspeeder jumped forward as Threepio engaged the accelerator, but itsoccupants were totally unaware that other eyes were watching as the craft increasedits speed.
　　Those eyes were not organic, but then, they weren't wholly mechanical, either.No one could say for certain, because no one had ever made that intimate a study ofthe Tusken Raiders-known less formally to the margin farmers of Tatooine simply asthe sandpeople.
　　The Tusken didn't permit close study of themselves, discouraging potentialobservers by methods as effective as they were uncivilized. A few xenologiststhought they must be related to the jawas. Even fewer hypothesized that the jawaswere actually the mature form of the sandpeople, but this theory was discounted bythe majority of serious scientists.
　　Both races affected tight clothing to shield them from Tatooine's twin dose ofsolar radiation, but there most comparisons ended. Instead of heavy woven cloakslike the jawas wore, the sandpeople wrapped themselves mummy-like in endlessswathing and bandages and loose bits of cloth.
　　Where the jawas feared everything, a Tusken Raider feared little. Thesandpeople were larger, stronger, and far more aggressive. Fortunately for thehuman colonists of Tatooine, they were not very numerous and elected to pursue theirnomadic existence in some of Tatooine's most desolate regions. Contact betweenhuman and Tusken, therefore, was infrequent and uneasy, and they murdered no morethan a handful of human per year. Since the human population had claimed its shareof Tuskens, not always with reason, a peace of a sort existed between the two-aslong as neither side gained an advantage.
　　One of the pair felt that that unstable condition had temporarily shifted in hisfavor, and he was about to take full advantage of it as he raised his rifle toward thelandspeeder. But his companion grabbed the weapon and shoved down on it beforeit could be fired. This set off a violent argument between the two. And, as theytraded vociferous opinions in a language consisting mostly of consonants, thelandspeeder sped on its way.
　　Either because the speeder had passed out of range or because the second Tuskenhad convinced the other, the two broke off the discussion and scrambled down thebackside of the high ridge. Snuffling and a shifting of weight took place at the ridgebottom as the two Banthas stirred at the approach of their masters. Each was aslarge as a small dinosaur, with bright eyes and long, thick fur. They hissed anxiouslyas the two sandpeople approached, then mounted them from knee to saddle.
　　With a kick Banthas rose. Moving slowly but with enormous strides, the twomassive horned creatures swept down the back of the rugged bluff, urged on by theiranxious, equally outrageous mahouts.
　　"It's him, all right," Luke declared with mixed anger and satisfaction as the tinytripodal form came into view. The speeder banked and swung down onto the floorof a huge sandstone canyon. Luke slipped his rifle out from behind the seat andswung it over his shoulder. "Come round in front of him, Threepio," he instructed.
　　"With pleasure, sir."
　　The Artoo unit obviously noted their approach, but mad no move to escape; itcould hardly have outrun the landspeeder anyway. Artoo simply halted as soon as itdetected them and waited until the craft swung around in a smooth arc. Threepiocame to a sharp halt, sending up a low cloud of sand on the smaller robot's right.Then the whine from the landspeeder's engine dropped to a low idling hum asThreepio put it in parking mode. A last sigh and the craft stopped completely.
　　After finishing a cautious survey of the canyon, Luke led his companion out ontothe gravelly surface and up to Artoo Detoo. "Just where," he inquired sharply, "didyou think you were going?"
　　A feeble whistle issued from the apologetic robot, but it was Threepio and notthe recalcitrant rover who was abruptly doing most of the talking.
　　"Master Luke here is now your rightful owner, Artoo. How could you justamble away from him like this? Now that's he's found you, let's have no more ofthis 'Obi-wan Kenobi's gibberish. I don't know where picked that up-or thatmelodramatic hologram, either."
　　Artoo started to beep in protest, but Threepio's indignation was too great topermit excuses. "And don't talk to me about your mission. What rot! You'refortunate Master Luke doesn't blast you into a million pieces right here and now."
　　"Not much chance of that," admitted Luke, a bit overwhelmed by Threepio'scasual vindictiveness. "Come on-it's getting late." He eyed the rapidly risingsuns. "I just hope we can get back before Uncle Owen really lets go."
　　"If you don't mind my saying so," Threepio suggested, apparently unwilling thatthe Artoo unit should get off so easily, "I think you ought to deactivate the littlefugitive until you've gotten him safely back in the garage."
　　"No. He's not going to try anything." Luke studied the softly beeping 'droidsternly. "I hope he's learned his lesson. There's no need to-"
　　Without warning the Artoo unit suddenly leaped off the ground-no mean featconsidering the weakness of the spring mechanisms in his three thick legs. Hiscylindrical body was twisting and spinning as he let out a frantic symphony ofwhistles, hoots, and electronic exclamations.
　　Luke was tired, not alarmed. "What is it? What's wrong with him now?"He was beginning to see how Threepio's patience could be worn thin. He had hadabout enough of this addled instrument himself.
　　Undoubtedly the Artoo unit had acquired the holo of the girl by accident, thenused it to entice Luke into removing his restraining module. Threepio probably hadthe right attitude. Still, once Luke got its circuits realigned and its logic couplingscleaned, it would make a perfectly serviceable farm unit. Only´if that was the case,then why was Threepio looking around so anxiously?
　　"Oh my, sir. Artoo claims there are several creatures of unknown typeapproaching from the southeast."
　　That could be another attempt by Artoo to distract them, but Luke couldn't takethe chance. Instantly he had his rifle off his shoulder and had activated the energycell. He examined the horizon in the indicated direction and saw nothing. But then,sandpeople were experts at making themselves unseeable.
　　Luke suddenly realized exactly how far out they were, how much ground thelandspeeder had covered that morning. "I've never been out in this direction this farfrom the farm before," he informed Threepio. "There are some awfully strangethings living out here. Not all of them have been classified. It's better to treatanything as dangerous until determined otherwise. Of course, if it's somethingutterly new´" His curiosity prodded him. In any case, this was probably justanother ruse of Artoo Detoo's. "Let's take a look," he decided.
　　Moving cautiously forward and keeping his rifle ready, he led Threepio towardthe crest of a nearby high dune. At the same time he took care not to let Artoo out ofhis sight.
　　Once at the top he lay flat and traded his rifle for the macrobinoculars. Below,another canyon spread out before them, rising to a wind-weathered wall of rust andocher. Advancing the binocs slowly across the canyon floor, he settled unexpectedlyon two tethered shapes. Banthas-and riderless!
　　"Did you say something, sir?" wheezed Threepio, struggling up behind Luke.His locomotors were not designed for such outer climbing and scrambling.
　　"Banthas, all right," Luke whispered over his shoulder, not considering in theexcitement of the moment that Threepio might not know a Bantha from a panda.
　　He looked back into the eyepieces, refocusing slightly. "Wait´it's sandpeople,sure. I see one of them."
　　Something dark suddenly blocked his sight. For a moment he thought that arock might have moved in front of them. Irritably he dropped the binoculars andreached out to move the blinding object aside. His hand touched something like softmetal.
　　It was a bandaged leg about as big around as both of Luke's together. Shocked,he looked up´and up. The towering figure glaring down at him was no jawa. Ithad seemingly erupted straight from the sand.
　　Threepio took a startled step backward and found no footing. As gyros whinedin protest the tall robot tumbled backward down the side of the dune. Frozen inplace, Luke heard steadily fading bangs and rattles as Threepio bounced down thesteep slope behind him.
　　As the moment of confrontation passed, the Tusken let out a terrifying grunt offury and pleasure and brought down his heavy gaderffii. The double-edged axwould have cleaved Luke's skull neatly in two, except that he threw the rifle up in agesture more instinctive than calculated. His weapon deflected the blow, but wouldnever do so again. Made from cannibalized freighter plating the huge ax shatteredthe barrel and made metallic confetti of the gun's delicate insides.
　　Luke scrambled backward and found himself against a steep drop. The Raiderstalked him slowly, weapon held high over its rag-enclosed head. It uttered agruesome, chuckling laugh, the sound made all the more inhuman by the distortioneffect of its grid-like sandfilter.
　　Luke tried to view his situation objectively, as he had been instructed to do insurvival school. Trouble was, his mouth was dry, his hands were shaking, and hewas paralyzed with fear. With the Raider in front of him and a probably fatal dropbehind, something else in his mind took over and opted for the least painful response.He fainted.
　　None of the Raiders notice Artoo Detoo as the tiny robot force himself into asmall alcove in the rocks near the landspeeder. One of them was carrying the inertform of Luke. He dumped the unconscious youth in a heap next to the speeder, thenjoined his fellows as they began swarming over the open craft.
　　Supplies and spare parts were thrown in all directions, from time to time theplundering would be interrupted as several of them quibbled or fought over aparticularly choice bit of booty.
　　Unexpectedly, distribution of the landspeeder's content ceased, and withfrightening speed the Raiders became part of the desertscape, looking in all directions.
　　A lost breeze idled absently down the canyon. Far off to the west, somethinghowled. A rolling, booming drone ricocheted off canyon walls and crawlednervously up and down a gorgon scale.
　　The sandpeople remained poised a moment longer. Then they were utteringloud grunts and moans of fright as they rushed to get away from the highly visiblelandspeeder.
　　The shivering howl sounded again, nearer this time. Bu now the sandpeoplewere halfway to their waiting Banthas, that were likewise lowing tensely and tuggingat their tethers.
　　Although the sound held no meaning for Artoo Detoo, the little 'droid tried tosqueeze himself even deeper into the almost-cave. The booming howl came closer.Judging by the way the sandpeople had reacted, something monstrous beyondimagining had to be behind that rolling cry. Something monstrous and murder-bentwhich might not have the sense to distinguish between edible organics and inediblemachines.
　　Not even the dust of their passing remained to mark where the Tusken Raidershad only minutes before been dismembering the interior of the landspeeder. ArtooDetoo shut down all but vital functions, trying to minimize noise and light as aswishing sound grew gradually audible. Moving toward the landspeeder, thecreature appeared above the top of a nearby dune´

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
    

A New Hope
V

　　It was tall, but hardly monstrous. Artoo frowned inwardly as he checked ocularcircuitry and reactivated his innards.
　　The monster looked very much like and old man. He was clad in a shabbycloak and loose robes hung with a few small straps, packs, and unrecognizableinstruments. Artoo searched the human's wake but detected no evidence of apursuing nightmare. Nor did the man appear threatened. Actually, Artoo thought,he looked kind of pleased.
　　It was impossible to tell where the odd arrival's overlapping attire ended and hisskin began. That aged visage blended into the sand-stroked cloth, and his beardappeared but an extension of the loose threads covering his upper chest.
　　Hints of extreme climates other than desert, of ultimate cold and humidity, wereetched into that seamed face. A questing beak of nose, like a high rock, protrudedoutward from a flashflood of wrinkles and scars. The eyes bordering it were a liquidcrystalazure. The man smiled through sand and dust and beard, squinting at the sightof the crumpled form lying quietly alongside of the landspeeder.
　　Convinced that the sandpeople had been the victims of an auditory delusion ofsome kind-conveniently ignoring the fact that he had experienced it also-andlikewise assured that this stranger meant Luke no harm, Artoo shifted his positionslightly, trying to obtain a better view. The sound produced by a tiny pebble hedislodged was barely perceptible to his electronic sensors, but the man whirled as ifshot. He stared straight at Artoo's alcove, still smiling gently.
　　"Hello there," he called in a deep, surprisingly cheerful voice. "Come here, mylittle friend. No need to be afraid."
　　Something forthright and reassuring was in that voice. In any case, theassociation of an unknown human was preferable to remaining isolated in thiswasteland. Waddling out into the sunlight. Artoo made his way over to whereLuke lay sprawled. The robot's barrel-like body inclined forward as he examinedthe limp form. Whistles and beeps of concern came from within.
　　Walking over, the old man bent beside Luke and reached out to touch hisforehead, then his temple. Shortly, the unconscious youth was stirring andmumbling like a dreaming sleeper.
　　"Don't worry," the human told Artoo, "he'll be all right."
　　As if to confirm this opinion, Luke blinked, stared upward uncomprehendingly,and muttered, "What happened?"
　　"Rest easy, son," the man instructed him as he sat back on his heels. "You'vehad a busy day." Again the boyish grin. "You're mighty lucky your head's stillattached to the rest of you."
　　Luke looked around, his gaze coming to rest on the elderly face hovering abovehim. Recognition did wonders for his condition.
　　"Ben´it's got to be!" A sudden remembrance made him look around fearfully.But there was no sign of sandpeople. Slowly he raised his body to a sitting position."Ben Kenobi´am I glad to see you!"
　　Rising, the old man surveyed the canyon floor and rolling rimwall above. Onefoot played with the sand. "The Jundland wastes are not to be traveled lightly. It'sthe misguided traveler who tempts the Tusken's hospitality." His gaze went back tohis patient. "Tell me, young man, what brings you out this far into nowhere?"
　　Luke indicated Artoo Detoo. "This little 'droid. For a while I thought he'dgone crazy, claiming he was searching for a former master. Now I don't think so.I've never seen such devotion in a 'droid-misguided or otherwise. There seems tobe no stopping him; he even resorted to tricking me."
　　Luke's gaze shifted upward. "He claims to be the property of someone calledObi-wan Kenobi." Luke watched closely, but the man showed no reaction. "Is that arelative of yours? My uncle thinks he was a real person. Or is it just someunimportant bit of scrambled information that got shifted into his primaryperformance bank?"
　　An introspective frown did remarkable things to that sandlbasted face. Kenobiappeared to ponder the question, scratching absently at his scruffy beard. "Obi-wanKenobi!," he recited. "Obi-wan´now, that's a name I haven't heard in a long time.A long time. Most curious."
　　"My uncle said he was dead," Luke supplied helpfully.
　　"Oh, he's not dead," Kenobi corrected him easily. "Not yet, not yet."
　　Luke climbed excitedly to his feet, all thoughts of Tusken Raiders forgotten now."You know him, then?"
　　A smile of perverse youthfulness split that collage of wrinkled skin and beard."Of course I know him; he's me. Just as you probably suspected, Luke. I haven'tgone by the name Obi-wan, though, since before you were born."
　　"Then," Luke essayed, gesturing at Artoo Detoo, "this 'droid does belong to you,as he claims."
　　"Now, that's the peculiar part," an openly puzzled Kenobi confessed, regardingthe silent robot. "I can't seem to remember owning a 'droid, least of all a modernArtoo unit. Most interesting, most interesting."
　　Something drew the old man's gaze suddenly to the brow of nearby cliffs. "Ithink it's best we make use of your landspeeder some. The sandpeople are easilystartled, but they'll soon return in greater numbers. A landspeeder's not a prizereadily conceded, and after all, jawas they're not."
　　Placing both hands over his mouth in a peculiar fashion, Kenobi inhaled deeplyand let out an unearthly howl that made Luke jump. "That ought to keep anylaggards running for a while yet," the old man concluded with satisfaction.
　　"That's a krayt dragon call!" Luke gaped in astonishment "How did you dothat?"
　　"I'll show you sometime, son. It's not too hard. Just takes the right attitude, aset of well-used vocal cords, and a lot of wind. Now, if you were an imperialbureaucrat, I could teach you right off, but you're not." He scanned the cliff-spineagain. "And I don't think this is the time or place for it."
　　"I won't argue that." Luke was rubbing at the back of his head. "Let's getstarted."
　　That was when Artoo let out a pathetic beep and whirled. Luke couldn'tinterpret the electronic squeal, but he suddenly comprehended the reason behind it."Threepio." Luke exclaimed, worriedly. Artoo was already moving as fast aspossible away from the landspeeder. "Come on, Ben."
　　The little robot led them to the edge of a large sandpit. It stopped there,pointing downward and squeaking mournfully. Luke saw where Artoo was pointing,then started cautiously down the smooth, shifting slope while Kenobi followedeffortlessly.
　　Threepio lay in the sand at the base of the slope down which he had rolled andtumbled. His casing was dented and badly mangled. One arm lay broken and benta short distance away.
　　"Threepio!" Luke called. There was no response. Shaking the 'droid failed toactivate anything. Opening a plate on the robot's back, Luke flipped a hidden switchon and off several times in succession. A low hum started, stopped, started again,and then dropped to a normal purr.
　　Using his remaining arm, Threepio rolled over and sat up. "Where am I," hemurmured, as his photoreceptors continued to clear. Then he recognized Luke."Oh, I'm sorry, sir. I must have taken a bad step."
　　"You're lucky any of your main circuits are still operational," Luke informedhim. He looked significantly toward the top of the hill. "Can you stand? We'vegot to get out of here before the sandpeople return."
　　Servomotors whined in protest until Threepio ceased struggling. "I don't thinkI can make it. You go on, Master Luke. It doesn't make sense to risk yourself onmy account. I'm finished."
　　"No, you're not," Luke shot back, unaccountably affected by this recentlyencountered machine. But then, Threepio was not the usual uncommunicative,agrifunctional device Luke was accustomed to dealing with. "What kind of talk isthat?"
　　"Logical," Threepio informed him.
　　Luke shook his head angrily. "Defeatist."
　　With Luke and Ben Kenobi's aid, the battered 'droid somehow managed tostruggle erect. Little Artoo watched from the pit's rim.
　　Hesitating part way up the slope, Kenobi sniffed the air suspiciously. "Quickly,son. They're on the move again."
　　Trying to watch the surrounding rocks and his footsteps simultaneously, Lukefought to drag Threepio clear of the pit.
　　The d└cor of Ben Kenobi's well-concealed cave was Spartan without appearinguncomfortable. It would not have suited most people, reflecting as it did it's owner'speculiarly eclectic tastes. The living area radiated an aura of lean comfort with moreimportance attached to mental comforts than those of the awkward human body.
　　They had succeeded in vacating the canyon before the Tusken Raiders couldreturn in force. Under Kenobi's direction, Luke left a trail behind them so confusingthat not even a hypernasal jawa could have followed it.
　　Luke spent several hours ignoring the temptations of Kenobi's cave. Instead heremained in the corner which was equipped as a compact yet complete repair shop,working to fix Threepio's severed arm.
　　Fortunately, the automatic overload disconnects had given way under the severestrain, sealing electronic nerves and ganglia without real damage. Repair wasmerely a matter of reattaching the limb to the shoulder, then activating the self-seals.Had the arm been broken in mid-"bone" instead of at a joint, such repairs would havebeen impossible save at a factory shop.
　　While Luke was thus occupied, Kenobi's attention was concentrated on ArtooDetoo. The squat 'droid sat passively on the cool cavern floor while the old manfiddled with its metal insides. Finally the man sat back with a "Humph!" ofsatisfaction and closed the open panels in the robot's rounded head. "Now let's seeif we can figure out what you are, my little friend, and where you came from."
　　Luke was almost finished anyway, and Kenobi's words were sufficient to pullhim away from the repair area. "I saw part of the message," he began, "and I´"
　　Once more the striking portrait was being projected into empty space from thefront of the little robot. Luke broke off, enraptured by its enigmatic beauty onceagain.
　　"Yes, I think that's got it," Kenobi murmured contemplatively.
　　The image continued to flicker, indicating a tape hastily prepared. But it wasmuch sharper, better defined now, Luke noted with admiration. One thing wasapparent: Kenobi was skilled in subjects more specific than desert scavenging.
　　"General Obi-wan Kenobi," the mellifluous voice was saying, "I present myselfin the name of the world family of Alderaan and of the Alliance to Restore theRepublic. I break your solitude at the bidding of my father, Bail Organa, Viceroyand First Chairman of the Alderaan system."
　　Kenobi absorbed this extraordinary declamation while Luke's eyes bugged bigenough to fall from his face.
　　"Years ago, General," the voice continued, "you served the Old Republic in theClone Wars. Now my father begs you to aid us again in our most desperate hour.He would have you join him on Alderaan. You must go to him.
　　"I regret that I am unable to present my father's request to you in person. Mymission to meet personally with you has failed. Hence I have been forced to resortto this secondary method of communication.
　　"Information vital to the survival of the Alliance has been secured in the mind ofthis Detoo 'droid. My father will know how to retrieve it. I plead with you to seethis unit safely delivered to Alderaan."
　　She paused, and when she continued, her words were hurried and less laced withformality. "You must help me, Obi-wan Kenobi. You are my last hope. I will becaptured by agents of the Empire. They will learn nothing from me. Everything tobe learned lies locked in the memory cells of this 'droid. Do not fail us, Obi-wanKenobi. Do not fail me."
　　A small cloud of tridimensional static replaced the delicate portrait, and then itvanished entirely. Artoo Detoo gazed up expectantly at Kenobi.
　　Luke's mind was as muddy as a pond laced with petroleum. Unanchored, histhoughts and eyes turned for stability to the quiet figure seated nearby.
　　The old man. The crazy wizard. The desert bum and all-around characterswhom his uncle and everyone else had known of for as long as Luke could recall.
　　If the breathless, anxiety-ridden message the unknown woman had just spokeninto the cool air of the cave had affected Kenobi in any way he gave no hint of it.Instead, he leaned back against the rock wall and tugged thoughtfully at his beard,puffing slowly on a water pipe of free-form tarnished chrome.
　　Luke visualized that simple yet lovely portrait. "She's so-so-" His farmingbackground didn't provide him with the requisite words. Suddenly something in themessage caused him to stare disbelievingly at the oldster. "General Kenobi, youfought in the Clone Wars? But´that was so long ago."
　　"Um, yes," Kenobi acknowledged, as casually as he might have discussed therecipe for shang stew. "I guess it was a while back. I was a Jedi knight once.Like," he added, watching the youth appraisingly, "your father."
　　"A Jedi knight," Luke echoed. Then he looked confused. "But my fatherdidn't fight in the Clone Wars. He was no knight-just a navigator on a spacefreighter."
　　Kenobi's smile enfolded the pipe's mouthpiece. "Or so your uncle has toldyou." His attention was suddenly focused elsewhere. "Owen Lars didn't agreewith your father's ideas, opinions, or with his philosophy of life. He believed thatyour father should have stayed here on Tatooine and not gotten involved in´"Again the seemingly indifferent shrug. "Well, he thought he should have remainedhere and minded his farming."
　　Luke said nothing, his body tense as the old man related bits and pieces of apersonal history Luke had viewed only through his uncle's distortions.
　　"Owen was always afraid that your father's adventurous life might influence you,might pull you away from Anchorhead." He shook his head slowly, regretfully atthe remembrance. "I'm afraid there wasn't much of the farmer in your father."
　　Luke turned away. He returned to cleaning the last particles of sand fromThreepio's healing armature. "I wish I'd known him," he finally whispered.
　　"He was the best pilot I ever knew," Kenobi went on, "and a smart fighter. Theforce´the instinct was strong in him." For a brief second Kenobi actually appearedold. "He was also a good friend."
　　Suddenly the boyish twinkle returned to those piercing eyes along with the oldman's natural humor. "I understand you're quite a pilot yourself. Piloting andnavigation aren't hereditary, but a number of the things that can combine to make agood small-ship pilot are. Those you may have inherited. Still, even a duck has tobe taught to swim."
　　"What's a duck?" Luke asked curiously.
　　"Never mind. In many ways, you know, you are much like your father."Kenobi's unabashed look of evaluation made Luke nervous. "You've grown upquite a bit since the last time I saw you."
　　Having no reply for that, Luke waited silently as Kenobi sank back into deepcontemplation. After a while the old man stirred, evidently having reached animportant decision.
　　"All this reminds me," he declared with deceptive casualness, "I have somethinghere for you." He rose and walked over to a bulky, old-fashioned chest and startedrummaging through it. All sorts of intriguing items were removed and shovedaround, only to be placed back in the bin. A few of them Luke recognized. AsKenobi was obviously intent on something important, he forbore inquiring about anyof the other tantalizing flotsam.
　　"When you were old enough," Kenobi was saying, "your father want you to havethis´if I can ever find the blasted device. I tried to give it to you once before, butyour uncle wouldn't allow it. He believed you might get some crazy ideas from itand end up following old Obi-wan on some idealistic crusade.
　　"You see, Luke, that's where your father and your Uncle Owen disagreed. Larsis not a man to let idealism interfere with business, whereas your father didn't thinkthe question even worth discussing. His decision on such matters came like hispiloting-instinctively."
　　Luke nodded. He finished picking out the last of the grit and looked around forone remaining component to snap back in Threepio's open chest plate. Locating therestraining module, he opened the receiving latches in the machine and set aboutlocking it back in place. Threepio watched the process and appeared to wince everso perceptibly.
　　Luke stared into those metal and plastic photoreceptors for a long moment.Then he set the module pointedly on the workbench and closed the 'droid up.Threepio said nothing.
　　A grunt came from behind them, and Luke turned to see a pleased Kenobiwalking over. He handed Luke a small, innocuous-looking device, which the youthstudied with interest.
　　It consisted primarily of a short, thick handgrip with a couple of small switchesset into the grip. Above this small post was a circular metal disk barely larger indiameter than his spread palm. A number of unfamiliar, jewel-like components werebuilt into both handle and disk, including what looked like the smallest power cellLuke had ever seen. The reverse side of the disk was polished to a mirror brightness.But it was the power cell that puzzled Luke the most. Whatever the thing was, itrequired a great deal of energy, according to the rating form of the cell.
　　Despite the claim that it had belonged to his father, the gizmo looked newlymanufactured. Kenobi had obviously kept it carefully. Only a number of minutescratches on the handgrip hinted at previous usage.
　　"Sir?" came a familiar voice Luke hadn't heard in a while.
　　"What?" Luke was startled out of his examination.
　　"If you'll not be needing me," Threepio declared, "I think I'll shut down for a bit.It will help the armature nerves to knit, and I'm due for some internal self-cleansinganyhow."
　　"Sure, go ahead," Luke said absently, returning to his fascinated study of thewhatever-it-was. Behind him, Threepio became silent, the glow fading temporarilyfrom his eyes. Luke noticed that Kenobi was watching him with interest. "What isit?" he finally asked, unable despite his best efforts to identify the device.
　　"Your father's lightsaber," Kenobi told him. "At one time they were widelyused. Still are, in certain galactic quarters."
　　Luke examined the controls on the handle, then tentatively touched a brightlycolored button up near the mirrored pommel. Instantly the disk put forth a blue-white beam as thick around as his thumb. It was dense to the point of opacity and alittle over a meter in length. It did not fade, but remained as brilliant and intense atits far end as it did next to the disk. Strangely, Luke felt no heat from it, though hewas very careful not to touch it. He knew what a lightsaber could do, though he hadnever seen one before. It could drill a hole right through the rock wall of Kenobi'scave-or through a human being.
　　"This was the formal weapon of a Jedi knight," explained Kenobi. "Not asclumsy or random as a blaster. More skill than simple sight was required for its use.An elegant weapon. It was a symbol as well. Anyone can use a blaster orfusioncutter-but to use a lightsaber well was a mark of someone a cut above theordinary." He was pacing the floor of the cave as he spoke.
　　"For over a thousand generations, Luke, the Jedi knights were the most powerful,most respected force in the galaxy. They served as the guardians and guarantors ofpeace and justice in the Old Republic."
　　When Luke failed to ask what had happened to them since, Kenobi looked up tosee that the youth was staring vacantly into space, having absorbed little if any of theoldster's instruction. Some men would have chided Luke for not paying attention.Not Kenobi. More sensitive than most, he waited patiently until the silence weighedstrong enough on Luke for him to resume speaking.
　　"How," he asked slowly, "did my father die?"
　　Kenobi hesitated, and Luke sensed that the old man had no wish to talk aboutthis particular matter. Unlike Owen Lars, however, Kenobi was unable to takerefuge in a comfortable lie.
　　"He was betrayed and murdered," Kenobi declared solemnly, "by a very youngJedi named Darth Vader." He was not looking at Luke. "A boy I was training.One of my brightest disciples´one of my greatest failures."
　　Kenobi resumed his pacing. "Vader used the training I gave him and the forcewithin him for evil, to help the later corrupt Emperors. With the Jedi knightsdisbanded, disorganized, or dead, there were few to oppose Vader. Today they areall but extinct."
　　An indecipherable expression crossed Kenobi's face. "In many ways they weretoo good, too trusting for their own health. They put too much trust in the stabilityof the Republic, failing to realize that while the body might be sound, the head wasgrowing diseased and feeble, leaving it open to manipulation by such as the Emperor.
　　"I wish I knew what Vader was after. Sometimes I have the feeling he ismarking time in preparation for some incomprehensible abomination. Such is thedestiny of one who masters the force and is consumed by its dark side."
　　Luke's face twisted in confusion. "A force? That's the second time you'vementioned a 'force.' "
　　Kenobi nodded. "I forget sometimes in whose presence I babble. Let us saysimply that the force is something a Jedi must deal with. While it has never beenproperly explained, scientists have theorized it is an energy field generated by livingthings. Early man suspected its existence, yet remained in ignorance of its potentialfor millennia.
　　"Only certain individuals could recognize the force for what it was. They weremercilessly labeled: charlatans, fakers, mystics-and worse. Even fewer could makeuse of it. As it was usually beyond their primitive controls, it frequently was toopowerful for them. They were misunderstood by their fellow-and worse."
　　Kenobi made a wide, all encompassing gesture with both arms. "The forcesurrounds each and every one of us. Some men believe it directs our actions, and notthe other way around. Knowledge of the force and how to manipulate it was whatgave the Jedi his special power."
　　The arms came down and Kenobi stared at Luke until the youth began to fidgetuncomfortably. When he spoke again it was in a tone so crisp and unaged that Lukejumped in spite of himself. "You must learn the ways of the force also, Luke-ifyou are to come with me to Alderaan."
　　"Alderaan!" Luke hopped off the repair seat, looking dazed. "I'm not going toAlderaan. I don't even know where Alderaan is." Vaporators, 'droids, harvest-abruptly the surroundings seemed to close in on him, the formerly intriguingfurnishings and alien artifacts now just a mite frightening. He looked around wildly,trying to avoid the piercing gaze of Ben Kenobi´old Ben´crazy Ben´General Obi-wan´
　　"I've got to get back home," he found himself muttering thickly. "It's late.I'm in for it as it is." Remembering something, he gestured toward the motionlessbulk of Artoo Detoo. "You can keep the 'droid. He seems to want you to. I'llthink of something to tell my uncle-I hope," he added forlornly.
　　"I need your help, Luke," Kenobi explained, his manner a combination ofsadness and steel. "I'm getting too old for this kind of thing. Can't trust myself tofinish it properly on my own. This mission is far too important." He noddedtoward Artoo Detoo. "You heard and saw the message."
　　"But´I can't get involved with anything like that," protested Luke. "I've gotwork to do; we've got crops to bring in-even though Uncle Owen could alwaysbreak down and hire a little extra help. I mean, one, I guess. But there's nothing Ican do about it. Not now. Besides, that's all such a long way from here. Thewhole thing is really none of my business."
　　"That sounds like your uncle talking," Kenobi observed without rancor.
　　"Oh! My Uncle Owen´How am I going to explain all this to him?"
　　The old man suppressed a smile, aware that Luke's destiny had already beendetermined for him. It had been ordained five minutes before he had learned aboutthe manner of his father's death. It had been ordered before that when he had heardthe complete message. It had been fixed in the nature of things when he had firstviewed the pleading portrait of the beautiful Senator Organa awkwardly projected bythe little 'droid. Kenobi shrugged inwardly. Likely it had been finalized evenbefore the boy was born. Not that Ben believed in predestination, but he did believein heredity-and in the force.
　　"Remember, Luke, the suffering of one man is the suffering of all. Distancesare irrelevant to injustice. If not stopped soon enough, evil eventually reaches out toengulf all men, whether they have opposed it or ignored it."
　　"I suppose," Luke confessed nervously, "I could take you as far as Anchorhead.You can get transport from there to Mos Eisley, or wherever it is you want to go."
　　"Very well," agreed Kenobi. "That will do for a beginning. Then you must dowhat you feel is right."
　　Luke turned away, now thoroughly confused. "Okay. Right now I don't feeltoo good´"
　　The holding hole was deathly dim, with only the bare minimum of illuminationprovided. There was barely enough to see the black metal walls and the high ceilingoverhead. The cell was designed to maximize a prisoner's feelings of helplessness,and this it achieved well. So much so that the single occupant started tensely as ahum came from one end of the chamber. The metal door which began moving asidewas as thick as her body-as if, she mused bitterly, they were afraid she might breakthrough anything less massive with her bare hands.
　　Straining to see outside, the girl saw several imperial guards assume positionsjust outside the doorway. Eyeing them defiantly, Leia Organa backed up against thefar wall.
　　Her determined expression collapsed as soon as a monstrous black form enteredthe room, gliding smoothly as if on treads. Vader's presence crushed her spirit asthoroughly as an elephant would crush an eggshell. That villain was followed by anantiqued whip of a man who was only slightly less terrifying, despite his minisculeappearance alongside the Dark Lord.
　　Darth Vader made a gesture to someone outside. Something that hummed like ahuge bee moved close and slipped inside the doorway. Leia choked on her ownbreath at the sight of the dark metal globe. It hung suspended on independentrepulsors, a farrago of metal arms protruding from its sides. The arms were tippedwith a multitude of delicate instruments.
　　Leia studied the contraption fearfully. She had heard rumors of such machines,but had never really believed that Imperial technicians would construct such amonstrosity. Incorporated into its soulless memory was every barbarity, everysubstantiated outrage known to mankind-and to several alien races as well.
　　Vader and Tarkin stood there quietly, giving her plenty of time to study thehovering nightmare. The Governor in particular did not delude himself into thinkingthat the mere presence of the device would shock her into giving up the informationhe needed. Not, he reflected, that the ensuing session would be especiallyunpleasant. There was always enlightenment and knowledge to be gained from suchencounters, and the Senator promised to be a most interesting subject.
　　After a suitable interval had passed, he motioned to the machine. "Now,Senator Organa, Princess Organa, we will discuss the location of the principal rebelbase."
　　The machine moved slowly toward her, traveling on a rising hum. Itsindifferent spherical form blocked out Vader, the Governor, the rest of the cell´thelight´
　　Muffled sounds penetrated the cell walls and thick door, drifting out into thehallway beyond. They barely intruded on the peace and quiet of the walkwayrunning past the sealed chamber. Even so, the guards stationed immediately outsidemanaged to find excuses to edge a sufficient distance away to where those oddlymodulated sounds could no longer be heard at all.

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
    

A New Hope
VI

　　"Look over there, Luke," Kenobi ordered, pointing to the southwest. Thelandspeeder continued to race over the gravelly desert floor beneath them. "Smoke,I should think."
　　Luke spared a glance at the indicated direction. "I don't see anything, sir."
　　"Let's angle over that way anyhow. Someone may be in trouble."
　　Luke turned the speeder. Before long the rising wisps of smoke that Kenobihad somehow detected earlier became visible to him also.
　　Topping a slight rise, the speeder dropped down a gentle slope into a broad,shallow canyon that was filled with twisted, burned shapes, some of them inorganic,some not. Dead in the center of this carnage and looking like a beached metal whalelay the shattered hulk of a jawa sandcrawler.
　　Luke brought the speeder to a halt. Kenobi followed him onto the sand, andtogether they began to examine the detritus of destruction.
　　Several slight depressions in the sand caught Luke's attention. Walking a littlefaster, he came up next to them and studied them for a moment before calling back toKenobi.
　　"Looks like the sandpeople did it, all right. Here's Bantha tracks´" Lukenoticed a gleam of metal half-buried in the sand. "And there's a piece of one ofthose big double axes of theirs." He shook his head in confusion. "but I neverheard of the Raiders hitting something this big." He leaned back, staring up at thetowering, burned-out bulk of the sandcrawler.
　　Kenobi had passed him. He was examining the broad, huge footprints in thesand. "They didn't," he declared casually, "but they intended that we-and anyoneelse who might happen onto this-should think so." Luke moved up alongside him.
　　"I don't understand, sir."
　　"Look at these tracks carefully," the older man directed him, pointing down atthe nearest and then up at the others. "Notice anything funny about them?" Lukeshook his head. "Whoever left here was riding Banthas side by side. Sandpeoplealways ride one Bantha behind another, single file, to hide their strength from anydistant observers."
　　Leaving Luke to gape at the parallel sets of tracks, Kenobi turned his attention tothe sandcrawler. He pointed out where single weapons' bursts had blasted awayportals, treads, and support beams. "Look at the precision with which this firepowerwas applied. Sandpeople aren't this accurate. In fact, no one on Tatooine fires anddestroys with this kind of efficiency." Turing, he examined the horizon. One ofthose nearby bluffs concealed a secret-and a threat. "Only Imperial troops wouldmount an attack on a sandcrawler with this kind of cold accuracy."
　　Luke had walked over to one of the small, crumpled bodies and kicked it overonto its back. His face screwed up in distaste as he saw what remained of the pitifulcreature.
　　"These are the same jawas who sold Uncle Owen and me Artoo and Threepio.I recognize this one's cloak design. Why would Imperial troops be slaughteringjawas and sandpeople? They must have killed some Raider to get those Banthas."His mind worked furiously, and he found himself growing unnaturally tense as hestared back at the landspeeder, past the rapidly deteriorating corpses of the jawas.
　　"But´if they tracked the 'droids to the jawas, then they had to learn first whothey sold them to. They would lead them back to´" Luke was sprinting insanelyfor the landspeeder.
　　"Luke, wait´wait, Luke!" Kenobi called. "It's too dangerous! You'dnever´!"
　　Luke heard nothing except the roaring in his ears, felt nothing save the burningin his heart. He jumped into the speeder and was throwing the accelerator full overalmost simultaneously. In an explosion of sand and gravel he left Kenobi and thetwo robots standing alone in the midst of smoldering bodies, framed by the stillsmoking wreck of the sandcrawler.
　　The smoke that Luke saw as he drew near the homestead was of a differentconsistency from that which had boiled out of the jawa machine. He barelyremembered to shut down the landspeeder's engine as he popped the cockpit canopyand threw himself out. Dark smoke was drifting steadily from holes in the ground.
　　Those holes had been his home, the only one he had ever known. They mightas well have been throats of small volcanoes now. Again and again he tried topenetrate the surface entrances to the belowground complex. Again and again thestill-intense heat drove him back, coughing and choking.
　　Weakly he found himself stumbling clear, his eyes watering not entirely from thesmoke. Half blinded, he staggered over to the exterior entrance to the garage. Ittoo was burning. But perhaps they managed to escape in the other landspeeder.
　　"Aunt Beru´Uncle Owen!" It was difficult to make out much of anythingthrough the eye-stinging haze. Two smoking shapes showed down the tunnel, barelyvisible through tears and haze. They almost looked like- He squinted harder,wiping angrily at his uncooperative eyes.
　　No.
　　Then he was spinning away, falling to his stomach and burying his face in thesand so he wouldn't have to look anymore.
　　The tridimensional solid screen filled one wall of the vast chamber from floor toceiling. It showed a million star systems. A tiny portion of the galaxy, but animpressive display nonetheless when exhibited in such a fashion.
　　Below, far below, the huge shape of Darth Vader stood flanked on one side byGovernor Tarkin and on the other by Admiral Motti and General Tagge, their privateantagonisms forgotten in the awesomeness of this moment.
　　"The final checkout is complete." Motti informed them. "All systems areoperational." He turned to the others. "What shall be the first course we set?"
　　Vader appeared not to have heard as he mumbled softly, half to himself, "She hasa surprising amount of control. Her resistance to the interrogator is considerable."He glanced down at Tarkin. "It will be some time before we can extract any usefulinformation from her."
　　 "I've always found the methods you recommend rather quaint, Vader."
　　"They are efficient," the Dark Lord argued softly. "In the interest ofaccelerating the procedure, however, I am open to your suggestions."
　　Tarkin looked thoughtful. "Such stubbornness can often be detoured byapplying threats to something other than the one involved."
　　"What do you mean?"
　　"Only that I think is time we demonstrated the full power of this station. Wemay do so in a fashion doubly useful." He instructed the attentive Motti, "Tell yourprogrammers to set course for the Alderaan system."
　　Kenobi's pride did not prevent him from wrapping an old scarf over nose andmouth to filter out a portion of the bonfire's drifting putrid odor. Though possessedof olfactory sensory apparatus, Artoo Detoo and Threepio had no need of such ascreen. Even Threepio, who was equipped to discriminate among aromaticaesthetics, could be artificially selective when he so desired.
　　Working together, the two 'droids helped Kenobi throw the last of the bodiesonto the blazing pyre, then stood back and watched the dead continue to burn. Notthat the desert scavengers wouldn't have been equally efficient in picking the burned-out sandcrawler clean of flesh, but Kenobi retained values most modern men wouldhave deemed archaic. He would consign no one to the bone-gnawers and gravel-maggots, not even a filthy jawa.
　　At a rising thrumming Kenobi turned from the residue of the noisome business tosee the landspeeder approaching, now traveling at a sensible pace, far different fromwhen it had left. It slowed and hovered nearby, but showed no signs of life.
　　Gesturing for the two robots to follow, Ben started toward the waiting craft.The canopy flipped open and up to reveal Luke sitting motionless in the pilot's seat.He didn't look up at Kenobi's inquiring glance. That in itself was enough to tell theold man what had happened.
　　"I share your sorrow, Luke," he finally ventured softly. "There was nothing youcould have done. Had you been there, you'd be dead now, too, and the 'droidswould be in the hands of the Imperials. Not even the force-"
　　"Damn your force!" Luke snarled with sudden violence. Now he turned andglared at Kenobi. There was a set to his jaw that belonged on a much older face.
　　"I'll take you to the spaceport at Mos Eisley, Ben. I want to go with you-toAlderaan. There's nothing left for me here now." His eyes turned to look outacross the desert, to focus on something beyond sand and rock and canyon walls. "Iwant to learn to be like a Jedi, like my father. I want´" He paused, the wordsbacking up like a logjam in his throat.
　　Kenobi slid into the cockpit, put a hand gently on the youth's shoulder, then wentforward to make room for the two robots. "I'll do my best to see that you get whatyou want, Luke. For now, let's go to Mos Eisley."
　　Luke nodded and closed the canopy. The landspeeder moved away to thesoutheast, leaving behind the still-smoldering sandcrawler, the jawa funeral pyre, andthe only life Luke had ever known.
　　Leaving the speeder parked near the edge of the sandstone bluff, Luke and Benwalked over and peered down at the tiny regularized bumps erupting from the sun-baked plain below. The haphazard collage of low-grade concrete, stone, and plastoidstructures spread outward from a central power-and-water-distribution plant like thespokes of a wheel.
　　Actually the town was considerably larger than it appeared, since a good portionof it lay underground. Looking like bomb craters from this distance, the smoothcircular depressions of launch stations pockmarked the cityscape.
　　A brisk gale was scouring the tired ground. It whipped the sand about Luke'sfeet and legs as he adjusted his protective goggles.
　　"There it is," Kenobi murmured, indicating the unimpressive collection ofbuildings, "Mos Eisley Spaceport-the ideal place for us to lose ourselves while weseek passage offplanet. Not a more wretched collection of villainy and disreputabletypes exists anywhere on Tatooine. The Empire has been alerted to us, so we mustbe very cautious, Luke. The population of Mos Eisley should disguise us well."
　　Luke wore a determined look. "I'm ready for anything, Obi-wan."
　　I wonder if you comprehend what that might entail, Luke, Kenobi thought. Buthe only nodded as he led the way back to the landspeeder.
　　Unlike Anchorhead, there were enough people in Mos Eisley to requiremovement in the heat of day. Built from the beginning with commerce in mind,even the oldest of the town's buildings had been designed to provide protection fromthe twin suns. They looked primitive from the outside, and many were. Butoftentimes walls and arches of old stone masked durasteel double walls withcirculating coolant flowing freely between.
　　Luke was maneuvering the landspeeder through the town's outskirts whenseveral tall, gleaming forms appeared from nowhere and began to close a circlearound him. For one panicked moment he considered gunning the engine and racingthrough the pedestrians and other vehicles. A startlingly firm grip on his arm bothrestrained and relaxed him. He glanced over to see Kenobi smiling, warning him.
　　So they continued at a normal town cruising speed, Luke hoping that the imperialtroops were bent on business elsewhere. No such luck. One of the troopers raisedan armored hand. Luke had no choice but to respond. As he pulled the speederover, he grew aware of the attention they were receiving from curious passersby.Worse yet, it seemed that the trooper's attention was in fact reserved not for Kenobi orhimself, but for the two unmoving robots seated in the speeder behind them.
　　"How long have you had these 'droids?" the trooper who had raised his handbarked. Polite formalities were to be dispensed with, it appeared.
　　Looking blank for a second, Luke finally came up with "Three or four seasons, Iguess."
　　"They're up for sale, if you want them-and the price is right," Kenobi put in,giving a wonderful impression of a dessert finagler out to cajole a few quick creditsfrom ignorant Imperials.
　　The trooper in charge did not deign to reply. He was absorbed in a thoroughexamination of the landspeeder's underside.
　　"Did you come in from the south?" he asked.
　　"No´no," Luke answered quickly, "we live in the west, near Bestine township."
　　"Bestine?" the trooper murmured, walking around to study the speeder's front.Luke forced himself to stare straight ahead. Finally the armored figure concludedhis examination. He moved to stand ominously close to Luke and snapped, "Let mesee your identification."
　　Surely the man sensed his terror and nervousness by now, Luke thought wildly.His resolution of not long before to be ready to take on anything had alreadydisintegrated under the unwinking stare of this professional soldier. He knew whatwould happen if they got a look at his formal ID, with the location of his homesteadand the name of his nearest relatives on it. Something seemed to be buzzing insidehis head; he felt faint.
　　Kenobi had leaned over and was talking easily to the trooper. "You don't needto see his identification," the old man informed the Imperial in an extremely peculiarvoice.
　　Staring blankly back at him, the officer replied, as if it were self-evident, "I don'tneed to see your identification." His reaction was the opposite of Kenobi's: hisvoice was normal, but his expression peculiar.
　　"These aren't the 'droids you're looking for," Kenobi told him pleasantly.
　　"These aren't the 'droids we're looking for."
　　"He can go about his business."
　　"You can go about your business," the metal-masked officer informed Luke.
　　The expression of relief that spread across Luke's face ought to have been asrevealing as his previous nervousness, but the Imperial ignored it.
　　"Move along," Kenobi whispered.
　　"Move along," the officer instructed Luke.
　　Unable to decide whether he should salute, nod, or give thanks to the man, Lukesettled for nudging the accelerator. The landspeeder moved forward, drawing awayfrom the circle of troops. As they prepared to round a corner, Luke risked a glancebackward. The officer who had inspected them appeared to be arguing with severalcomrades, though at this distance Luke couldn't be sure.
　　He peered up at his tall companion and started to say something. Kenobiseemed to have some idea where they were headed. Luke studied the run-downstructures and equally unwholesome-looking individuals they were passing. Theyhad entered the oldest section of Mos Eisley and consequently the one where the oldvices flourished most strongly.
　　Kenobi pointed and Luke pulled the landspeeder up in front of what appeared tobe one of the original spaceport's first blockhouses. It had been converted into acantina whose clientele was suggested by the diverse nature of transport parkedoutside. Some of them Luke recognized, others he had only heard rumors of. Thecantina itself, he knew from the design of the building, must lie partially underground.
　　As the dusty but still sleek craft pulled into an open spot, a jawa materializedfrom nowhere and began running covetous hands over the metal sides. Luke leanedout and barked something harsh at the sub-human, which caused it to scurry away.
　　"I can't abide those jawas," murmured Threepio with lofty disdain."Disgusting creatures."
　　Luke's mind was too full of their narrow escape for him to comment onThreepio's sentiments. "I still can't understand how we got by these troops. Ithought we were as good as dead."
　　"The force is in the mind, Luke, and can sometime be used to influence others.It's a powerful ally. But as you come to know the force, you will discover that it canalso be a danger."
　　Nodding without really understanding, Luke indicated the run-down thoughobviously popular cantina. "Do you really think we can find a pilot here capable oftaking us all the way to Alderaan?"
　　Kenobi was exiting from the speeder. "Most of the good, independent freighterpilots frequent this place, though many can afford better. They can talk freely here.You should have learned by now, Luke, not to equate ability with appearance." Lukesaw the old man's shabby clothing anew and felt ashamed. "Watch yourself, though.This place can be rough."
　　Luke found himself squinting as they entered the cantina. It was darker insidethan he would have liked. Perhaps the regular habitu└s of this place wereunaccustomed to the light of day, or didn't wish to be seen clearly. It didn't occur toLuke that the dim interior in combination with the brilliantly lit entrance permittedeveryone inside to see each newcomer before he could see them.
　　Moving inward, Luke was astonished at the variety of beings making use of thebar. There were one-eyed creatures and thousand-eyed, creature with scales,creatures with fur, and some with skin that seemed to ripple and change consistencyaccording to their feelings of the moment.
　　Hovering near the bar itself was a towering insectoid that Luke glimpsed only asa threatening shadow. It contrasted with two of the tallest women Luke had everseen. They were among the most normal looking of the outrageous assemblage ofhumans that mixed freely among alien counterparts. Tentacles, claws, and handswere wrapped around drinking utensils of various sizes and shapes. Conversationwas a steady babble of human and alien tongues.
　　Leaning close, Kenobi gestured toward the far end of the bar. A small knot ofrough-looking humans lounged there, drinking laughing, and trading stories ofdubious origin.
　　"Corellians-pirates, most likely."
　　"I thought we were looking for an independent freighter captain with his ownship for hire," Luke whispered back.
　　"So we are, young Luke, so we are," agreed Kenobi. "And there's bound to beone or two adequate for our needs among that group. It's just that in Corellianterminology the distinction between who owns what cargo tends to get a littlemuddled from time to time. Wait here."
　　Luke nodded and watched as Kenobi worked his way through the crowd. TheCorrellians' suspicion at his approach vanished as soon as he engaged them inconversation.
　　Something grabbed Luke's shoulder and spun him around.
　　"Hey" Looking around and struggling to regain his composure, he foundhimself staring up at an enormous, scruffy-looking human. Luke saw by the man'sclothing that he must be the bartender, if not the owner of this cantina.
　　"We don't serve their kind in here," the glaring form growled.
　　"What?" Luke replied dumbly. He still hadn't recovered from his suddensubmergence into the cultures of several dozen races. It was rather different fromthe poolroom behind the Anchorhead power station. "Your 'droids," the bartenderexplained impatiently, gesturing with a thick thumb. Luke peered in the indicateddirection, to see Artoo and Threepio standing quietly nearby. "They'll have to waitoutside. We don't serve them in here. I only carry stuff for organics, not," heconcluded with an expression of distaste, "mechanicals."
　　Luke didn't like the idea of kicking Threepio and Artoo out, but he didn't knowhow else to deal with the problem. The bartender didn't appear to be the sort whowould readily respond to reason, and when he looked around for old Ben, Luke sawthat he was locked in deep conversation with one of the Corellians.
　　Meanwhile, the discussion had attracted the attention of several especiallygruesome-looking types who happened to be clustered within hearing range. Alwere regarding Luke and the two 'droids in a decidedly unfriendly fashion.
　　"Yes, of course," Luke said, realizing this wasn't the time or place to force theissue of 'droid rights. "I'm sorry." He looked over at Threepio. "You'd betterstay outside with the speeder. We don't want any trouble in here."
　　"I heartily agree with you, sir," Threepio said, his gaze traveling past Luke andthe bartender to take in the unfriendly stares at the bar. "I don't feel the need forlubrication at the moment anyway." With Artoo waddling in his wake, the tall robothastily headed for the exit.
　　That finished things as far as the bartender was concerned, but Luke now foundhimself the subject of some unwanted attention. He abruptly became aware of hisisolation and felt as if at one time or another every eye in the place rested a momenton him, that things human and otherwise were smirking and making comments abouthim behind his back.
　　Trying to maintain an air of quiet confidence, he returned his gaze to old Ben,and started when he saw what the oldster was talking to now. The Corellian wasgone. In its place Kenobi was chatting with a towering anthropoid that showed amouthful of teeth when it smiled.
　　Luke had heard about Wookies, but he had never expected to see one, much lessmeet on. Despite an almost comical quasi-monkey face, the Wookie was anythingbut gentle looking. Only the large, glowing yellow eyes softened its otherwiseawesome appearance. The massive torso was covered entirely with soft, thick russetfur. Less appealing cover consisted of a pair of chromed bandoliers, which heldlethal projectiles of a type unknown to Luke. Other than these, the Wookies worelittle.Not, Luke knew, that anyone would laugh at the creature's mode of dress. He sawthat other denizens of the bar eddied and swirled around the huge form without evercoming too close. All but old Ben-Ben who was talking to the Wookie in its ownlanguage, quarreling and hooting softly like a native.
　　In the course of the conversation the old man had occasion to gesture in Luke'sdirection. Once the huge anthropoid stared directly at Luke and let out a horrifyinghowling laugh.
　　Disgruntled by the role he was evidently playing in the discussion, Luke turnedaway and pretended to ignore the whole conversation. He might be acting unfairlytoward the creature, but he doubted that spine-quaking laugh was meant in gentlegood-fellowship.
　　For the life of him he couldn't understand what Ben wanted with the monster, orwhy he was spending his time in guttural conversation with it instead of with the now-vanished Corellians. So he sat and sipped his drink in splendid silence, his eyesroving over the crowd in hopes of meeting a responsive gaze that held no belligerence.
　　Suddenly, something shoved him roughly from behind, so hard he almost fell.He turned angrily, but his fury spent itself in astonishment. He found himselfconfronted by a large squarish monstrosity of multiple eyes and indeterminate origin.
　　"Negola dewaghi wooldugger?" the apparition bubbled challengingly.
　　Luke had never seen its like before; he knew neither its species nor its language.The gabbling might have been an invitation to a fight, a request to share a drink, or amarriage proposal. Despite his ignorance, however, Luke could tell by the way thecreature bobbed and wove unsteadily on its podal supports that it had imbibed toomuch of whatever it considered a pleasing intoxicant.
　　Not knowing what else to do, Luke tried turning back to his own drink whilestudiously ignoring the creature. As he did so, a thing-a cross between a capybaraand a small baboon-bounced over to stand (or squat) next to the quivering many-eye.A short, companionable arm around the snuffling mass.
　　"He doesn't like you," the stubby human informed Luke in a surprisingly deepvoice.
　　"I'm sorry about that," Luke admitted, wishing heartily he were somewhere else.
　　"I don't like you either," the smiling little man went on with brotherly negativity.
　　"I said I was sorry about it."
　　Whether from the conversation it was having with the rodent-like creature or theoverdose of booze, the apartment house for wayward eyeballs was obviously growingagitated. It leaned forward, almost toppling into Luke, and spewed a stream ofunintelligible gibberish at him. Luke felt the eyes of a crowd on him as he grewincreasingly more nervous.
　　"Sorry," the human mimicked derisively, clearly deep into his own cups. "Areyou insulting us? You just better watch yourself. We're all wanted." Heindicated his drunken companions. "I have the death sentence on me in twelvedifferent systems."
　　"I'll be careful, then," Luke muttered.
　　The little man was smiling broadly. "You'll be dead."
　　At this the rodent let out a loud grunt. It was either a signal or a warning,because everything human or otherwise which had been leaning up at the barimmediately backed away, leaving a clear space around Luke and his antagonists.
　　Trying to salvage the situation, Luke essayed a wan smile. That faded rapidlywhen he saw that the three were readying hand weapons. Not only couldn't he havecountered all three of them, he had no idea what a couple of the lethal-looking devicesdid.
　　"this little one isn't worth the trouble," a calm voice said. Luke looked up,startled. He hadn't heard Kenobi come up alongside him. "Come, let me buy youall something´"
　　By way of reply the bulky monster chittered hideously and swung out a massivelimb. It caught an unprepared Luke across the temple and sent him spinning acrossthe room, crashing through tables and shattering a large jug filled with a foul-smellingliquid.
　　The crowd edged back farther, a few grunts and warning snorts coming fromsome of them as the drunken monstrosity pulled a wicked-looking pistol from itsservice pouch. He started to wave it in Kenobi's direction.
　　That spurred the heretofore-neutral bartender to life. He came chargingclumsily around the end of the bar, waving his hands frantically but still taking care tostay out of range.
　　"No blasters, no blasters! Not in my place!"
　　the rodent thing chattered threateningly at him, while the weapon wieldingmany-eye spared him a warning grunt.
　　In the split second when the gun and its owner's attention was off him, the oldman's hand had moved to the disk slung at his side. The short human started to yellas a fiery blue-white light appeared in the dimness of the cantina.
　　He never finished the yell. It turned into a blink. When the blink was finished,the man found himself lying prone against the bar, moaning and whimpering as hestared at the stump of an arm.
　　In between the start of his yell and the conclusion of the blink, the rodent-thinghad been cleft cleanly in half down the middle, its two halves falling in oppositedirections. The giant multiocular creature still stood staring, dazed, at the old humanwho was poised motionless before it, the shining lightsaber held over his head in apeculiar fashion. The creature's chrome pistol fired once, blowing a hole in the door.Then the torso peeled away as neatly as had the body of the rodent, its two cauterizedsection falling in opposite directions to lie motionless on the cool stone.
　　Only then did the suggestion of a sigh escape from Kenobi; only then did hisbody appear to relax. Bringing the lightsaber down, he flipped it carefully upward ina reflex saluting motion which ended with the deactivated weapon restinginnocuously on his hip.
　　That final movement broke the total quiet which had enshrouded the room.Conversations resumed, as did the movement of bodies in chairs, the scraping ofmugs and pitchers and other drinking devices on tabletops. The bartender andseveral assistants appeared to drag the unsightly corpses out of the room, while themutilated human vanished wordlessly into the crowd, cradling the stump of his gunarm and counting himself fortunate.
　　To all appearances the cantina had returned to its former state, with one smallexception. Ben Kenobi was given a respectful amount of space at the bar.
　　Luke barely heard the renewed conversation. He was still shaken by the speedof the fight and by the old man's unimagined abilities. As his mind cleared and hemoved to rejoin Kenobi, he could overhear bits and snatches of the talk around him.Much of it centered on admiration for the cleanness and finality of the fight.
　　"You're hurt, Luke," Kenobi observed solicitously.
　　Luke felt of the bruise where the big creature had stuck him. "I´" he started tosay, but old Ben cut him off. As if nothing had happened, he indicated the greathairy mass which was shouldering its way through the crowd toward them.
　　"This is Chewbacca," he explained when the anthropoid had joined them at thebar. "He's first mate on a ship that might suit our needs. He'll take us to hercaptain-owner now."
　　"This way," the Wookie grunted-at least, it sounded something like that to Luke.In any case, the huge creature's follow-me gesture was unmistakable. They startedto wend their way deeper into the bar, the Wookie parting the crowd like a gravelstorm cutting canyonettes.
　　Out in front of the cantina, Threepio paced nervously next to the landspeeder.Apparently unconcerned, Artoo Detoo was engaged in animated electronicconversation with a bright red R-2 unit be longing to another of the cantina's patrons.
　　"What could be taking them so long? They went to hire one ship-not a fleet."
　　Abruptly Threepio paused, beckoning silently for Artoo to be quiet. TwoImperial troopers had appeared on the scene. They were met by an unkempt humanwho had emerged almost simultaneously from the depths of the cantina.
　　"I do not like the looks of this," the tall 'droid murmured.
　　Luke had appropriated someone else's drink from a waiter's tray as they madetheir way to the rear of the cantina. He gulped at it with the giddy air of one whofeels himself under diving protection. That safe he was not, but in the company ofKenobi and the giant Wookie he began to feel confident that no one in the bar wouldassault him with so much as a dirty look.
　　In a rear booth they encountered a sharp-featured young man perhaps five yearsolder than Luke, perhaps a dozen-it was difficult to tell. He displayed the opennessof the utterly confident-or the insanely reckless. At their approach the man sent thehumanoid wench who had been wriggling on his lap on her way with a whisperedsomething which left a wide, if inhuman, grin on her face.
　　The Wookie Chewbacca rumbled something at the man, and he nodded inresponse, glancing up at the newcomers pleasantly.
　　"You're pretty handy with that saber, old man. Not often does one see that kindof swordplay in this part of the Empire anymore." He downed a prodigious portionof whatever filled his mug. "I'm Han Solo, captain of the Millennium Falcon."Suddenly he became all business. "Chewie tells me you're looking for passage tothe Alderaan system?"
　　"That's right, son. If it's on a fast ship," Kenobi told him. Solo didn't bridleat the "son."
　　"Fast ship? You mean you've never heard of the Millennium Falcon?"
　　Kenobi appeared amused. "Should I?"
　　"It's the ship that made the Kessel run in less than twelve standard timeparts!"Solo told him indignantly. "I've outrun Imperial starships and Corellian cruisers. Ithink she's fast enough for you, old man." His outrage subsided rapidly. "What'syour cargo?"
　　"Only passengers. Myself, the boy, and two 'droids-no questions asked."
　　"No questions." Solo regarded his mug, finally looked up. "Is it local trouble?"
　　"Let's just say we'd like to avoid any Imperial entanglements," Kenobi repliedeasily.
　　"These days that can be a real trick. It'll cost you a little extra." He did somemental figuring. "All in all, about ten thousand. In advance." He added with asmile, "And no questions asked."
　　Luke gaped at the pilot. "Ten thousand! We could almost buy our own shipfor that."
　　Solo shrugged. "Maybe you could and maybe you couldn't. In any case,could you fly it?"
　　"You bet I could," Luke shot back, rising. "I'm not such a bad pilot myself. Idon't-"
　　again the firm hand on his arm. "We haven't that much with us," Kenobiexplained. "But we could pay you two thousand now, plus another fifteen when wereach Alderaan."
　　Solo leaned forward uncertainly. "fifteen´You can really get your hands onthat kind of money?"
　　"I promise it-from the government on Alderaan itself. At the worst, you'llhave earned an honest fee: two thousand."
　　But Solo seemed not to hear the last. "Seventeen thousand´All right, I'llchance it. You've got yourselves a ship. As for avoiding Imperial entanglements,you'd better twist out of here or even the Millennium Falcon won't be any help toyou." He nodded toward the cantina entrance, and added quickly, "Docking bayninety-four, first thing in the morning."
　　Four Imperial troopers, their eyes darting rapidly from table to booth to bar, hadentered the cantina. There was muttering from among the crowd, but whenever theeyes of one of the heavily armed troopers went hunting for the mutterers, the wordsdied with sullen speed.
　　Moving to the bar, the officer in charge asked the bartender a couple of briefquestions. The big man hesitated a moment, then pointed toward a place near theback of the room. As he did so, his eyes widened slightly. Those of the officerwere unreadable.
　　The booth he was pointing to was empty.

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
    

A New Hope
VII

　　Luke and Ben were securing Artoo Detoo in the back of the speeder while Threepiokept a lookout for any additional troops.
　　"If Solo's ship is as fast as his boasting, we should be all right," the old manobserved with satisfaction.
　　"But two thousand-and fifteen more when we reach Alderaan!"
　　"It's not the fifteen that worries me; it's the first two," Kenobi explained. "I'mafraid you'll have to sell your speeder."
　　Luke let his gaze rove over the landspeeder, but the thrill it had once given himwas gone-gone along with other things best not dwelt on.
　　"It's all right," he assured Kenobi listlessly. "I don't think I'll need it again."
　　From their vantage point in another booth, Solo and Chewbacca watched as theImperials strode through the bar. Two of them gave the Corellian a lingering glance.Chewbacca growled once and the two soldiers hurried their pace somewhat.
　　Solo grinned sardonically, turning to his partner. "Chewie, this charter couldsave our necks. Seventeen thousand!" he shook his head in amazement. "Thosetwo must really be desperate. I wonder what they're wanted for. But I agreed, noquestions. They're paying enough for it. Let's get going-the Falcon won't checkitself out."
　　"Going somewhere, Solo?"
　　the Corellian couldn't identify the voice, coming as it did through an electronictranslator. But there was no problem recognizing the speaker or the gun it held stuckin Solo's side.
　　The creature was roughly man-sized and bipedal, but its head was something outof delirium by way of an upset stomach. It had huge, dull-faceted eyes, bulbous on apea-green face. A ridge of short spines crested the high skull, while nostrils andmouth were contained in a tapir-like snout.
　　"As a matter of fact," Solo replied slowly, "I was just on my way to see yourboss. You can tell Jabba I've got the money I owe him."
　　"That's what you said yesterday-and last week-and the week prior to that.It's too late, Solo. I'm not going back to Jabba with another one of your stories."
　　"But I've really got the money this time!" Solo protested.
　　"Fine. I'll take it now, please."
　　Solo sat down slowly. Jabba's minions were apt to be cursed with nervoustrigger fingers. The alien took the seat across from him, the muzzle of the ugly littlepistol never straying from Solo's chest.
　　"I haven't got it here with me. Tell Jabba-"
　　"It's too late, I think. Jabba would rather have your ship.""Over my dead body," Solo said unamiably.
　　The alien was not impressed. "If you insist. Will you come outside with me,or must I finish it here?"
　　"I don't think they'd like another killing in here," Solo pointed out.
　　Something which might have been a laugh came from the creature's translator."They'd hardly notice. Get up, Solo. I've been looking forward to this for a longtime. You've embarrassed me in front of Jabba with your pious excuses for the lasttime."
　　"I think you're right."
　　Light and noise filled the little corner of the cantina, and when it had faded, allthat remained of the unctuous alien was a smoking, slimy spot on the stone floor.
　　Solo brought his hand and the smoking weapon it held out from beneath the table,drawing bemused stares from several of the cantina's patrons and clucking soundsfrom its more knowledgeable ones. They had known the creature had committed itsfatal mistake in allowing Solo the chance to get his hands under cover.
　　"It'll take a lot more than the likes of you to finish me off. Jabba the Hutalways did skimp when it came to hiring his hands.
　　Leaving the booth, Solo flipped the bartender a handful of coins as he andChewbacca moved off. "Sorry for the mess. I always was a rotten host."
　　Heavily armed troopers hurried down the narrow alleyway, glowering from timeto time at the darkly clad beings who hawked exotic goods from dingy little stalls.Here in Mos Eisley's inner regions the walls were high and narrow, turning thepassageway into tunnel.
　　No one stared angrily back at them; no one shouted imprecations or mouthedobscenities. These armored figures moved with the authority of the Empire, theirsidearms boldly displayed and activated. All around, men, not-men, andmechanicals were crouched in waste-littered doorways. Among accumulations ofgarbage and filth they exchanged information and concluded transactions of dubiouslegality.
　　A hot wind moaned down the alleyway and the troopers closed their formation.Their precision and order masked a fear of such claustrophobic quarters.
　　One paused to check a door, only to discover it tightly locked and bolted. Asand-encrusted human shambling nearby visited a half-mad harangue on the trooper.Shrugging inwardly, the soldier gave the crazy human a sour eye before moving ondown the alley to join up again with his fellow.
　　As soon as they were well past, the door slid open a crack and a metallic facepeered out. Below Threepio's leg, a squat barrel shape struggled for a view.
　　"I would rather have gone with Master Luke than stay here with you. Still,orders are orders. I don't quite know what all the trouble is about, but I'm sure itmust be your fault."
　　Artoo responded with a near impossibility: a sniggering beep.
　　"You watch your language," the taller machine warned.
　　The number of old landspeeders and other powered transports in the dusty lotwhich were still capable of motion could be counted on the fingers of one hand. Butthat was not the concern of Luke and Ben as they stood bargaining with the tall,slightly insectoid owner. They were here not to buy, but to sell.
　　None of the passersby favored the hagglers with so much as a curious glance.Similar transactions which were no more pleas or threats to be exchanged. Asthough doling out vials of his own blood, the owner finalized the sale by passing anumber of small metal shapes to Luke. Luke and the insectoid traded formal good-byes and then they parted, each convinced he had gotten the better of the deal.
　　"He says it's the best he can do. Since the XP-38 came out, they just aren't indemand anymore," Luke sighed.
　　"Don't look so discouraged," Kenobi chided him. "What you've obtained willbe sufficient. I've enough to cover the rest."
　　Leaving the main street, they turned down an alleyway and walked past a smallrobot herding along a clutch of creatures resembling attenuated anteaters. As theyrounded the corner Luke strained for a forlorn glimpse of the old landspeeder-hislast link with his former life. Then there was no more time for looking back.
　　Something short and dark that might have been human underneath all itswrappings stepped out of the shadows as they moved away from the corner. Itcontinued staring after them as they disappeared down a bend in the walkway.
　　The docking-bay entrance to the small saucer-shaped spacecraft was completelyringed by half a dozen men and aliens, of which the former were by half the mostgrotesque. A great mobile tub of muscle and suet topped by a shaggy scarred skullsurveyed the semicircle of armed assassins with satisfaction. Moving forward fromthe center of the crescent, he shouted toward the ship.
　　"Come on out, Solo! We've got you surrounded."
　　"If so, you're facing the wrong way," came a calm voice.
　　Jabba the Hut jumped-in itself a remarkable sight. His lackeys likewisewhirled-to see Han Solo and Chewbacca standing behind them.
　　"You see, I've been waiting for you, Jabba."
　　"I expected you would be," the Hut admitted, at once pleased and alarmed by thefact that neither Solo nor the big Wookie appeared to be armed.
　　"I'm not the type to run," Solo said.
　　"Run? Run from what?" Jabba countered. The absence of visible weaponsbothered Jabba more than he cared to admit to himself. There was somethingpeculiar here, and it would be better to make no hasty moves until he discovered whatwas amiss.
　　"Han, my boy, there are times when you disappoint me. I merely wish to knowwhy you haven't paid me´ as you should have long ago. And why did you have tofry poor Greedo like that? After all you and I have been through together."
　　Solo grinned tightly. "Shove it, Jabba. There isn't enough sentiment in yourbody to warm an orphaned bacterium. As for Greedo, you sent him to kill me."
　　"Why, Han," Jabba protested in surprise, "why would I do that? You're the bestsmuggler in the business. You're too valuable to fry. Greedo was only relaying mynatural concern at your delays. He wasn't going to kill you."
　　"I think he thought he was. Next time don't send one of those hired twerps. Ifyou've got something to say, come see me yourself."
　　Jabba shook his head and his jowls shook-lazy, fleshy echoes of his mocksorrow. "Han, Han-if only you understand´I just can't make an exception.Where would I be if every pilot who smuggled for me dumped his shipment at thefirst sign of an Imperial warship? And then simply showed empty pockets when Idemanded recompense? It's not good business. I can be generous and forgiving-but not to the point of bankruptcy."
　　"You know, even I get boarded sometimes, Jabba. Did you think I dumped thatspice because I got tired of its smell? I wanted to deliver it as much as you wantedto receive it. I had no choice." Again the sardonic smile. "As you say, I'm toovaluable to fry. But I've got a charter now and I can pay you back, plus a little extra.I just need some more time. I can give you a thousand on account, the rest in threeweeks."
　　The gross form seemed to consider, then directed his next words not to Solo butto his hirelings. "Put your blasters away." His gaze and a predatory smile turned tothe wary Corellian.
　　"Han, my boy, I'm only doing this because you're the best and I'll need youagain sometime. So, out of the greatness of my soul and a forgiving heart-and foran extra, say, twenty percent-I'll give you a little more time." The voice nearlycracked with restraint. "But this is the last time. If you disappoint me again, if youtrample my generosity in your mocking laughter, I'll put a price on your head so largeyou won't be able to go near a civilized system for the rest of your life, because onevery one your name and face will be known to men who'll gladly cut your guts outfor one-tenth of what I'll promise them."
　　"I'm glad we both have my best interests at heart," replied Solo pleasantly as heand Chewbacca started past the staring eyes of the Hut's hired guns. "Don't worry,Jabba, I'll pay you. But not because you threaten me. I'll pay you because´it'smy pleasure."
　　"They're starting to search the spaceport central," the Commander declared,having to alternately run a couple of steps and then walk to keep pace with the longstrides of Darth Vader. The Dark Lord was deep in thought as he strode down one ofthe battle station's main corridors, trailed by several aides.
　　"The reports are just starting to come in," the Commander went on. "It's only amatter of time before we have those 'droids."
　　"Send in more men if you have to. Never mind the protests of the planetaryGovernor-I must have those 'droids. It's her hope of that data being used againstus that is the pillar of her resistance to the mind probes."
　　"I understand, Lord Vader. Until then we must waste our time with GovernorTarkin's foolish plan to break her."
　　"There's docking bay ninety-four," Luke told Kenobi and the robots who hadrejoined them, "and there's Chewbacca. He seems excited about something."
　　Indeed, the big Wookie was waving over the heads of the crowd and jabberingloudly in their direction. Speeding their pace, none of the foursome noticed thesmall, dark-clad thing that had followed them from the transporter lot.
　　The creature moved into the doorway and pulled a tiny transmitter from a pouchconcealed by its multifold robes. The transmitter looked far too new and modern tobe in the grasp of so decrepit a specimen, yet its manipulator was speaking into it withsteady assurance.
　　Docking bay ninety-four, Luke noted, was no different in appearance from a hostof other grandiosely named docking bays scattered throughout Mos Eisley. Itconsisted mostly of an entrance rampway and an enormous pit gouged from the rockysoil. This served as clearance radii for the effects of the simple antigrav drive, whichboosted all spacecraft, clear of the gravitational field of the planet.
　　The mathematics of spacedrive were simple enough even to Luke. Antigravcould operate only when there was a sufficient gravity well to push against-like thatof a planet-whereas supralight travel could only take place when a ship was clear ofthat same gravity. Hence the necessity for the dual-drive system on any extrasystemcraft.
　　The pit, which formed docking bay ninety-four, was as shabbily cut and run-down as the majority of Mos Eisley. Its sloping sides were crumbling in placesinstead of being smoothly fashioned as they were on more populous worlds. Lukefelt it formed the perfect setting for the spacecraft Chewbacca was leading themtoward.
　　That battered ellipsoid which could only loosely be labeled a ship appeared tohave been pieced together out of old hull fragments and components discarded asunusable by other craft. The wonder of it, Luke mused, was that the thing actuallyheld its shape. Trying to picture this vehicle as spaceworthy would have caused himto collapse in hysteria-were the situation not so serious. But to think of traveling toAlderaan in this pathetic´
　　"What a piece of junk," he finally murmured, unable to hide his feelings anylonger. They were walking up the rampway toward the open port. "This thingcouldn't possibly make it into hyperspace."
　　Kenobi didn't comment, but merely gestured toward the port, where a figure wascoming to meet them.
　　Either Solo had supernaturally acute hearing, or else he was used to the reactionthe sight of the Millennium Falcon produced in prospective passengers. "She maynot look like much," he confessed as he approached them, "but she's all go. I'veadded a few unique modifications to her myself. In addition to piloting, I like totinker. She'll make point five factors beyond lightspeed."
　　Luke scratched his head as he tried to reassess the craft in view of its owner'sclaims. Either the Corellian was the biggest liar this side of the galactic center, orthere was more to this vessel than met the eye. Luke thought back once more to oldBen's admonition never to trust surface impressions, and decided to reserve judgmenton the ship and its pilot until after he had watched them in operation.
　　Chewbacca had lingered behind at the docking-bay entrance. Now he rushedup the ramp, a hairy whirlwind, and blabbered excitedly at Solo. The pilot regardedhim coolly, nodding from time to time, then barked a brief reply. The Wookiecharged into the ship, pausing only to urge everyone to follow.
　　"We seem to be a bit rushed," Solo explained cryptically, "so if you'll hurryaboard, we'll be off."
　　Luke was about to venture some questions, but Kenobi was already proddinghim up the ramp. The 'droids followed.
　　Inside, Luke was slightly startled to see the bulky Chewbacca squirm and fighthis way into a pilot's chair which, despite modifications, was still over-whelmed byhis massive form. The Wookie flipped several tiny switches with digits seeminglytoo big for the task. Those great paws drifted with surprising grace over the controls.
　　A deep throbbing started somewhere within the ship as the engines wereactivated. Luke and Ben began strapping themselves into the vacant seats in themain passageway.
　　Outside the docking-bay entrance a long, leathery snout protruded from darkfolds of cloth, and somewhere in the depths to either side of that imposing proboscis,eyes stared intently. They turned, along with the rest of the head, as a squad of eightImperial troops rushed up. Perhaps not surprisingly, they headed straight for theenigmatic figure who whispered something to the lead trooper and gestured to thedocking bay.
　　The information must have been provocative. Activating their weapons andraising them to firing position, the troops charged en masse down the docking-bayentrance.
　　A glint of light on moving metal caught Solo's eyes as the unwelcome outlinesof the first troops showed themselves. Solo thought it unlikely they would pause toengage in casual conversation. His suspicion was confirmed before he could openhis mouth to protest their intrusion, as several dropped to their knees and opened fireon him. Solo ducked back inside, turning to yell forward.
　　"Chewie-deflector shields, quick! Get us out of here!"
　　A throaty roar of acknowledgment came back to him.
　　Drawing his own pistol, Solo managed to snap off a couple of bursts from thecomparative safety of the hatchway. Seeing that their quarry was neither helplessnor comatose, the exposed troops dove for cover.
　　The low throbbing rose to a whine, then to a deafening howl as Solo's hand camedown on the quick-release button. Immediately the overhead hatch-cover slammedshut.
　　As the retreating troops raced out of the docking-bay entrance, the ground wastrembling steadily. They ran smack into a second squad, which had just arrived inresponse to the rapidly spreading emergency call. One of the soldiers, gesticulatingwildly, tried to explain to the newly arrived ranking officer what had happened backin the bay.
　　As soon as the panting trooper had finished, the officer whipped out a compactcommunicator and shouted into it, "Flight deck´they're trying to escape! Sendeverything you've got after this ship."
　　All across Mos Eisley, alarms began to sound, spreading out from docking bayninety-four in concentric circles of concern.
　　Several soldiers scouring one alleyway reacted to the citywide alarm at the sametime as they saw the small freighter lift gracefully into the clear blue sky above MosEisley. It shrank to a pinpoint before any of them thought to bring a weapon to bear.
　　Luke and Ben were already undoing their acceleration straps as Solo walked pastthem, moving toward the cockpit with the easy, loose-limbed stride of the experiencedspacer. Once forward, he fell rather than sat in the pilot's seat and immediatelybegan checking readouts and gauges. In the seat next to him Chewbacca wasgrowling and grunting like a poorly tuned speeder engine. He turned from studyinghis own instruments long enough to jab a massive finger at the tracking screen.
　　Solo gave it a quick glance, then turned irritably to his own panel. "I know, Iknow´looks like two, maybe three destroyers. Somebody certainly dislikes ourpassengers. Sure picked ourselves a hot one this time. Try to hold them offsomehow until I can finish the programming for the supralight jump. Angle thedeflectors for maximum shielding."
　　With those instructions he ceased conversing with the huge Wookie as his handsflew over the computer-input terminals. Solo did not even turned around when asmall cylindrical shape appeared in the doorway behind him. Artoo Detoo beeped afew remarks, then scurried away.
　　Rear scanners showed the baleful lemon eye of Tatooine shrinking rapidlybehind them. It wasn't rapid enough to eliminate the three points of light thatindicated the presence of the pursuing Imperial warships.
　　Although Solo had ignored Artoo, he turned to acknowledge the entrance of hishuman passengers. "We've got two more coming in from different angles," he toldthem, scrutinizing the remorseless instrumentation. "They're going to try box upbefore we can jump. Five ships´What did you two do to attract that kind ofcompany?"
　　"Can't you outrun them?" Luke asked sarcastically, ignoring the pilot's questionthe pilot's question. "I thought you said this thing was fast."
　　"Watch your mouth, kid, or you'll find yourself floating home. There's toomany of 'em, for one thing. But, we'll be safe enough once we've made the jumpinto hyperspace." He grinned knowingly. "Can't nobody track another shipaccurately at supralight speeds. Plus, I know a few tricks that ought to lose anypersistent stick-tights. I wish I'd known you boys were so popular."
　　"Why?" Luke said challengingly. "Would you have refused to take us?"
　　"Not necessarily," the Corellian replied, refusing to be baited. "But I sure's hellwould've boosted your fare."
　　Luke had a retort poised on his lips. It was wiped out as he threw up his armsto ward off a brilliant red flash which gave black space outside the viewport thetemporary aspect of the surface of a sun. Kenobi, Solo and even Chewbacca didlikewise, since the proximity of the explosion nearly overrode the phototropicshielding.
　　"Here's where the situation gets interesting," Solo muttered.
　　"How long before you can make the jump?" Kenobi inquired easily, apparentlyunconcerned that at any second they all might cease to exist.
　　"We're still within the gravitational influence of Tatooine," came the coolresponse. "It will be a few minutes yet before the navigation computer cancompensate and effect an accurate jump. I could override its decision, but thehyperdrive would likely shred itself. That would give me a nice hold full of scrapmetal in addition to you four."
　　"A few minutes," Luke blurted, staring at the screens. "At the rate they'regaining´"
　　"Traveling through hyperspace isn't like dusting crops, boy. Ever triedcalculating a hyperspace jump?" Luke had to shake his head. "It's no mean trick.Be nice if we rushed it and passed right through a star or some other friendly spatialphenom like a black hole. That would end our trip real quick."
　　Fresh explosions continued to flare close by despite Chewbacca's best efforts atevasion. On Solo's console a red warning light began to flash for attention.
　　"What's that?" Luke wondered nervously.
　　"We're losing a deflector shield," Solo informed him with the air of a man aboutto have a tooth pulled. "Better strap yourselves back in. We're almost ready tomake the jump. It could get bad if we take a near-burst at the wrong moment."
　　Back in the main hold area Threepio was already locked tightly into his seat bymetal arms stronger than any acceleration straps. Artoo swayed back and forthunder the concussion produced by increasingly powerful energy bursts against theship's deflectors.
　　"Was this trip really necessary?" the tall robot muttered in desperation. "I'dforgotten how much I hate space travel." He broke off as Luke and Ben appearedand began strapping themselves back into their chairs.
　　Oddly, Luke was thinking of a dog he had once owned when an immenselypowerful something wrenched at the ship's hull with the strength of a fallen angel.
　　Admiral Motti entered the quiet conference room, his face streaked by the linearlights lining the walls. His gaze went to the spot where Governor Tarkin stoodbefore the curved viewscreen, and he bowed slightly. Despite the evidence of thesmall green gem of a world entered in the screen, he formally announced, "We haveentered the Alderaan system. We await your order."
　　The door signaled and Tarkin made a falsely gentle gesture to the admiral."Wait a moment yet, Motti."
　　The door slid aside and Leia Organa entered, flanked by two armed guards,followed by Darth Vader.
　　"I am-," Tarkin began.
　　"I know who you are," she spat, "Governor Tarkin. I should have expected tofind you holding Vader's leash. I thought I recognized your unique stench when Iwas first brought on board."
　　"Charming to the last," Tarkin declared in a fashion which suggested he wasanything but charmed. "You don't know how hard I found it to sign the order foryour termination." His expression changed to one of mock sorrow. "Of course,had you cooperated in our investigation, things might be otherwise. Lord Vader hasinformed me that your resistance to our traditional methods of inquiry-"
　　"Torture, you mean," she countered a trifle shakily.
　　"Let us not bandy semantics," Tarkin smiled.
　　"I'm surprised you had the courage to take the responsibility for issuing the orderon yourself."
　　Tarkin sighed reluctantly. "I am a dedicated man, and the pleasures I reservedfor myself are few. One of them is that before your execution I should like you to bemy guest at a small ceremony. It will certify this battle station's operational statuswhile at the same time ushering in a new era of Imperial technical supremacy. Thisstation is the final link in the new-forged Imperial chain which will bind the millionsystems of the galactic Empire together once and for all. Your petty Alliance will nolonger be of any concern to us. After today's demonstration no one will dare toopposite Imperial decree, not even the Senate."
　　Organa looked at him with contempt. "Force will not keep the Empire together.Force has never kept anything together for very long. The more you tighten yourgrip, the more systems will slip through your fingers. You're a foolish man,Governor. Foolish men often choke to death on their own delusions."
　　Tarkin smiled a death's-head smile, his face a parchment skull's. "It will beinteresting to see what manner of passing Lord Vader has in mind for you. I amcertain it will be worthy of your-and of him.
　　"But before you leave us, we must demonstrate the power of this station onceand for all, in a conclusive fashion. In a way, you have determined the choice ofsubject for this demonstration. Since you have proven reluctant to supply us withthe location of the rebel stronghold, I have deemed it appropriate to select as analternate subject your home planet of Alderaan."
　　"No! You can't! Alderaan is a peaceful world, with no standing armies.You can't´"
　　Tarkin's eyes gleamed. "You would prefer another target? A military target,perhaps? We're agreeable grow tired of such games. For the last time, where is themain rebel base?"
　　A voice announced over a hidden speaker that they had approached withinantigrav range of Alderaan-approximately six planetary diameters. That wasenough to accomplish what all of Vader's infernal devices had failed to.
　　"Dantooine," she whispered, staring at the deck, all pretense at defiance gonenow. "They're on Dantooine."
　　Tarkin let out a slow sigh of satisfaction, then turned to the black figure nearby."There, you see, Lord Vader? She can be reasonable. One needs only frame thequestion properly to elicit the desired response." He directed his attention to theother officers. "After concluding our little test here we shall make haste to move onto Dantooine. You may proceed with the operation, gentlemen."
　　It took several seconds for Tarkin's words, so casually uttered, to penetrate."What!" Organa finally gasped.
　　"Dantooine," Tarkin explained, examining his fingers, "is too far from thecenters of Imperial population to serve as the subject of an effective demonstration.You will understand that for reports of our power to spread rapidly through theEmpire we require an obstreperous world more centrally located. Have no fear,though. We will deal with your rebel friends on Dantooine as soon as possible."
　　"But you said´" Organa started to protest.
　　"The only words which have meaning are the last ones spoken," Tarkin declaredcuttingly. "We will proceed with destruction of Alderaan as planned. Then youwill enjoy watching with us as we obliterate the Dantooine center of this stupid andfutile rebellion."
　　He gestured to the two soldiers flanking her. "escort her to the principalobservation level and," he smiled, "make certain she is provided with an unobstructedview."

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
    

A New Hope
VIII

　　Solo was busily checking readouts from gauges and dials in the hold area.Occasionally he would pass a small box across various sensors, study the result, andcluck with pleasure.
　　"You can stop worrying about your Imperial friends," he told Luke and Ben."They'll never be able to track us now. Told you I'd lose them."
　　Kenobi might have nodded briefly in response, but he was engaged in explainingsomething to Luke.
　　"Don't everybody thank me at once," Solo grunted, slightly miffed. "Anyway,navigation computer calculates our arrival in Alderaan orbit at oh-two-hundred. I'mafraid after this little adventure I'll have to forge a new registration."
　　He returned to his checking, passing in front of a small circular table. The topwas covered with small squares lit from beneath, while computer monitors were setinto each side. Tiny three-dimensional figures were projected above the tabletopfrom various squares.
　　Chewbacca sat hunched over on side of the table, his chin resting in massivehands. His great eyes glowing and facial whiskers wrinkled upward, he gave everysign of being well pleased with himself.
　　At least, he did until Artoo Detoo reached up with a stubby clawed limb acrossfrom him and tapped his own computer monitor. One of the figures walked abruptlyacross the board to a new square and stopped there.
　　An expression of puzzlement, then anger crossed the Wookie's face as he studiedthe new configuration. Glaring up and over the table, he vented a stream of abusivegibberish on the inoffensive machine. Artoo could only beep in reply, but Threepiosoon interceded on behalf of his less eloquent companion and began arguing with thehulking anthropoid.
　　"He executed a fair move. Screaming about it won't help you."
　　Attracted by the commotion, Solo looked back over his shoulder, frowningslightly. "Let him have it. Your friend's way ahead anyhow. It's not wise to upseta Wookie."
　　"I can sympathize with that opinion, sir," Threepio countered, "but there isprinciple at stake here. There are certain standards any sentient creature must holdto. If one compromises them for any reason, including intimidation, then one isabrogating his right to be called intelligent."
　　"I hope you'll both remember that," Solo advised him, "when Chewbacca ispulling the arms off you and your little friend."
　　"Besides that, however," Threepio continued without missing a beat, "beinggreedy or taking advantage of someone in a weakened position is a clear sign of poorsportsmanship."
　　That elicited a beep of outrage from Artoo, and the two robots were soonengaged in violent electronic argument while Chewbacca continued jabbering at eachin turn, occasionally waving at them though the translucent pieces waiting patientlyon the board.
　　Oblivious to the altercation, Luke stood frozen in the middle of the hold. Heheld an activated lightsaber in position over his head. A low hum came from theancient instrument while Luke lunged and parried under Ben Kenobi's instructivegaze. As Solo glanced from time to time at Luke's awkward movements, his leanfeatures were sprinkled with smugness.
　　"No, Luke, you cuts should flow, not be so choppy," Kenobi instructed gently."Remember, the force is omnipresent. It envelops you as it radiates from you. AJedi warrior can actually feel the force as a physical thing."
　　"It is an energy field, then?" Luke inquired.
　　"It's an energy field and something more," Kenobi went on, almost mystically."An aura that at once controls and obeys. It is a nothingness that can accomplishmiracles." He looked thoughtful for a moment.
　　"No one, not even the Jedi scientists, were able to truly define the force.Possibly no one ever will. Sometimes there is as much magic as science in theexplanations of the force. Yet what is a magician but a practicing theorist? Now,let's try again."
　　The old man was hefting a silvery globe about the size of a man's fist. It wascovered with fine antennae, some as delicate as those of a moth. He flipped ittoward Luke and watched as it halted a couple of meters away from the boy's face.
　　Luke readied himself as the ball circled him slowly, turning to face it as itassumed a new position. Abruptly it executed a lightning-swift lunge, only to freezeabout a meter away. Luke failed to succumb to the feint, and the balls soon backedoff.
　　Moving slowly to one side in an effort to get around the ball's fore sensors, Lukedrew the saber back preparatory to striking. As he did so the ball darted in behindhim. A thin pencil of red light jumped from one of the antennae to the back ofLuke's thigh, knocking him to the deck even as he was bringing his saber around-too late.
　　Rubbing at his tingling, sleeping leg, Luke tried to ignore the burst of accusinglaughter from Solo. "Hocus-pocus religions and archaic weapons are no substitutefor a good blaster at your side," the pilot sneered.
　　"You don't believe in the force?" asked Luke, struggling back to his feet. Thenumbing effect of the beam wore off quickly.
　　"I've been from one end of this galaxy to the other," the pilot boasted, "and I'veseen a lot of strange things. To many to believe there couldn't be something like this'force.' Too many to think that there could be some such controlling one's actions.I determine my destiny-not some half-mystical energy field." He gestured towardKenobi. "I wouldn't follow him so blindly, if I were you. He's a clever old man,full of simple tricks and mischief. He might be using you for his own ends."
　　Kenobi only smiled gently, then turned back to face Luke. "I suggest you try itagain, Luke," he said soothingly. "You must try to divorce your actions fromconscious control. Try not to focus on anything concrete, visually or mentally. Youmust let your mind drift, drift; only then can you use the force. You have to enter astate in which you act on what you sense, not on what you think beforehand. Youmust cease cogitation, relax, stop thinking´let yourself drift´free´free´"
　　The old man's voice had dropped to a mesmerizing buzz. As he finished, thechrome bulb darted at Luke. Dazed by Kenobi's hypnotic tone, Luke didn't see itcharge. It's doubtful he saw much of anything with clarity. But as the ball neared,he whirled with amazing speed, the saber arcing up and out in a peculiar fashion.The red beam that the globe emitted was neatly deflected to one side. It hummingstopped and the ball bounced to the deck, all animation gone.
　　Blinking as if coming awake from a short nap, Luke stared in absoluteastonishment at the inert remote.
　　"You see, you can do it," Kenobi told him. "One can teach only so much.Now you must learn to admit the force when you want it, so that you can learn tocontrol it consciously."
　　Moving to one side, Kenobi took a large helmet from behind a locker and walkedover to Luke. Placing the helmet over his head effectively eliminated the boy'svision.
　　"I can't see," Luke muttered, turning around and forcing Kenobi to step back outof range of the dangerously wavering saber. "How can I fight?"
　　"With the force," old Ben explained. "You didn't really 'see' the seeker whenyou parried its beam. Try to let that sensation flow within you again."
　　"I can't do it," Luke moaned. "I'll get hit again."
　　"Not if you let yourself trust you," Kenobi insisted, none too convincingly forLuke. "This is the only way to be certain you're replying wholly on the force."
　　Noticing that the Corellian had turned to watch, Kenobi hesitated momentarily.It did Luke no good to have the self-assured pilot laugh every time a mistake wasmade. But coddling the boy would do him no good either, and there was no time forit anyway. Throw him in and hope he floats, Ben instructed himself firmly.
　　Bending over the chrome globe, he touched a control at its side. Then he tossedit straight up. It arched toward Luke. Braking in midfall, the ball plummetedstone-like toward the deck. Luke swung the saber at it. While it was acommendable try, it wasn't nearly fast enough. Once again the little antenna glowed.This time the crimson needle hit Luke square on the seat of his pants. Though itwasn't an incapacitating below, it felt like one; and Luke let out a yelp of pain as hespun, trying to strike his invisible tormentor.
　　"Relax!" old Ben urged him. "Be free. You're trying to use your eyes andears. Stop predicting and use the rest of your mind."
　　Suddenly the youth stopped, waving slightly. The seeker was still behind him.Changing direction again, it made another dive and fired.
　　Simultaneously the lightsaber jerked around, as accurate as it was awkward in itsmotion, to deflect the bolt. This time the ball didn't fall motionless to the deck.Instead it backed up three meters and remained there, hovering.
　　Aware that the drone of the seeker remote no longer assaulted his ears, a cautiousLuke peeked out from under the helmet. Sweat and exhaustion competed for spaceon his face.
　　"Did I--?"
　　"I told you you could," Kenobi informed him with pleasure. "Once you start totrust your inner self there'll be no stopping you. I told you there was much of yourfather in you."
　　"I'd call it luck," snorted Solo as he concluded his examination of the readouts.
　　"In my experience there is no such thing as luck, my young friend-only highlyfavorable adjustments of multiple factors to incline events in one's favor."
　　"Call it what you like," the Corellian sniffed indifferently, "but good against amechanical remote is one thing. Good against a living menace is another."
　　As he was speaking a small telltale light on the far side of the hold had begunflashing. Chewbacca noticed it and called out to him.
　　Solo glanced at the board, then informed his passengers, "We're coming up onAlderaan. We'll be slowing down shortly and going back under lightspeed. Comeon, Chewie."
　　Rising from the game table, the Wookie followed his partner toward the cockpit.Luke watched them depart, but his mind wasn't on their imminent arrival at Alderaan.It was burning with something else, something that seemed to grow and mature at theback of his brain as he dwelt on it.
　　"You know," he murmured, "I did feel something. I could almost 'see' theoutlines of the remote." He gestured at the hovering device behind him.
　　Kenobi's voice when he replied was solemn. "Luke, you've taken the first stepinto a larger universe."
　　Dozens of humming, buzzing instruments lent the freighter's cockpit the air of abusy hive. Solo and Chewbacca had their attention locked on the most vital of thoseinstruments.
　　"Steady´stand by, Chewie." Solo adjusted several manual compensators."Ready to go sublight´ready´cut us in, Chewie."
　　The Wookie turned something on the console before him. At the same timeSolo pulled back on a comparatively large lever. Abruptly the long streaks ofDoppler-distorted starlight slowed to hyphen shapes, then finally to familiar bolts offire. A gauge on the console registered zero.
　　Gigantic chunks of glowing stone appeared out of the nothingness, barelyshunted aside by the ship's deflectors. The strain caused the Millennium Falcon tobegin shuddering violently.
　　"What the--?" a thoroughly startled Solo muttered. Next to him, Chewbaccaoffered no comment of his own as he flipped off several controls and activated others.Only the fact that the cautious Solo always emerged from supralight travel with hisdeflectors up-just in case any of many unfriendly folks might be waiting for him-had saved the freighter from instant destruction.
　　Luke fought to keep his balance as he made his way into the cockpit. "What'sgoing on?"
　　"We're back in normal space," Solo informed him, "but we've come out in themiddle of the worst asteroid storm I've ever seen. It's not on any of our charts."He peered hard at several indicators. "According to the galactic atlas, our position iscorrect. Only one thing is missing: Alderaan."
　　"Missing? But-that's crazy!"
　　"I won't argue with you," the Corellian replied grimly, "but look for yourself."He gestured out the port. "I've triple-checked the coordinates, and there's nothingwrong with the nav'puter. We ought to be standing out one planetary diameter fromthe surface. The planet's glow should be filling the cockpit, but-there's nothing outthere. Nothing but debris." He paused. "Judging from the level of wild energyoutside and the amount of solid waste, I'd guess that Alderaan's been blown away.Totally."
　　"Destroyed," Luke whispered, overwhelmed at the specter raised by such anunimaginable disaster. "But-how?"
　　"The Empire," a voice declared firmly. Ben Kenobi had come in behind Luke,and his attention was held by the emptiness ahead as well as the import behind it.
　　"No." Solo was shaking his head slowly. In his own way even he was stunnedby the enormity of what the old man was suggesting. That a human agency had beenresponsible for the annihilation of an entire population, of a planet itself´
　　"No´the entire Imperial fleet couldn't have done this. It would take athousand ships massing a lot more firepower than has ever existed."
　　"I wonder if we should get out of here," Luke was murmuring, trying to seearound the rims of the port. "If by some chance it was the Empire´"
　　"I don't know what's happened here," an angry Solo cursed, "but I'll tell you onething. The Empire isn't-"
　　Muffled alarms began humming loudly as a synchronous light flashed on thecontrol console. Solo bent to the appropriate instrumentation.
　　"Another ship," he announced. "Can't judge the type yet."
　　"A survivor, maybe-someone who might know what happened." Luke venturedhopefully.
　　Ben Kenobi's next words shattered more than that hope. "That's an Imperialfighter."
　　Chewbacca suddenly gave an angry bark. A huge flower of destructionblossomed outside the port, battering the freighter violently. A tiny, double-wingedball raced past the cockpit port.
　　"It followed us!" Luke shouted.
　　"From Tatooine? It couldn't have," objected a disbelieving Solo. "Not inhyperspace."
　　Kenobi was studying the configuration the tracking screen displayed. "You'requite right, Han. It's the short-range Tie fighter."
　　"But where did it come from?" the Corellian wanted to know. "There are noImperial bases near here. It couldn't have been a Tie job."
　　"You saw it pass."
　　"I know. It looked like a Tie fighter-but what about a base?"
　　"It's leaving in a big hurry," Luke noted, studying the tracker. "No matterwhere it's going, if it identifies us we're in big trouble."
　　"Not if I can help it," Solo declared. "Chewie, jam its transmission. Lay in apursuit course."
　　"It would be best to let it go," Kenobi ventured thoughtfully. "It's already toofar out of range."
　　"Not for long."
　　Several minutes followed, during which the cockpit was filled with a tensesilence. Al eyes were on the tracking screen and viewport.
　　At first the Imperial fighter tried a complex evasive course, to no avail. Thesurprisingly maneuverable freighter hung tight on its tail, continuing to make up thedistance between them. Seeing that he couldn't shape his pursuers, the fighter pilothad obviously opened up his tiny engine all the way.
　　Ahead, one of the multitudes of stars was becoming steadily brighter. Lukefrowned. They were moving fast, but not nearly fast enough for any heavenly objectto brighten so rapidly. Something here didn't make sense.
　　"Impossible for a fighter that small to be this deep in space on its own," Soloobserved.
　　"It must have gotten lost, been part of a convoy or something," Lukehypothesized.
　　Solo's comment was gleeful. "Well, he won't be around long enough to tellanyone about us. We'll be on top of him in a minute or two."
　　The star ahead continued to brighten, its glow evidently coming from within. Itassumed a circular outline.
　　"He's heading for that small moon," Luke murmured.
　　"The Empire must have an outpost there," Solo admitted. "Although, accordingto the atlas, Alderaan had no moons." He shrugged it off. "Galactic topographywas never one of my best subjects. I'm only interested in worlds and moons withcustomers on them. But I think I can get him before he gets there; he's almost inrange."
　　They drew steadily nearer. Gradually craters and mountains on the moonbecame visible. Yet there was something extremely odd about them. The craterswere far too regular in outline, the mountains far too vertical, canyons and valleyimpossibly straight and regularized. Nothing as capricious as volcanic action hadformed those features.
　　"That's no moon," Kenobi breathed softly. "That's a space station."
　　"But it's too big to be a space station," Solo objected. "The size of it! It can'tbe artificial-it can't!"
　　"I have a very strange feeling about this," was Luke's comment.
　　Abruptly the usually calm Kenobi was shouting. "Turn the ship around! Let'sget out of here!"
　　"Yes, I think you're right, old man. Full reverse, Chewie."
　　The Wookie started adjusting controls, and the freighter seemed to slow, arcingaround in a broad curve. The tiny fighter leaped instantly toward the monstrousstation until it was swallowed up by its overpowering bulk.
　　Chewbacca chattered something at Solo as the ship shook and strained againstunseen forces.
　　"Lock in auxiliary power!" Solo ordered.
　　Gauges began to whine in protest, and by ones and twos every instrument on thecontrol console sequentially went berserk. Try as he might, Solo couldn't keep thesurface of the gargantuan station from looming steadily larger, larger-until it becamethe heavens.
　　Luke stared wildly at secondary installations as big as mountains, dish antennaelarger than all of Mos Eisley. "Why are we still moving toward it?"
　　"Too late," Kenobi whispered softly. A glance at Solo confirmed his concern.
　　"We're caught in a tractor beam-strongest on I ever saw. It's dragging us in,"the pilot muttered.
　　"You mean, there's nothing you can do?" Luke asked, feeling unbelievablyhelpless.
　　Solo studied the overloaded sensor readouts and shook his head. "Not againstthis kind of power. I'm on full power myself, kid, and it's not shifting out of coursea fraction of a degree. It's no use. I'm going to have to shut down or we'll meltour engines. But they're not going to suck me up like so much dust without a fight!"
　　He started to vacate the pilot's chair, but was restrained by an aged yet powerfulhand on his shoulder. An expression of concern was on the old man's face-and yet,a suggestion of something somewhat less funereal.
　　"If it's a fight you cannot win-well, my boy, there are always alternatives tofighting´"
　　The true size of the battle station became apparent as the freighter was pulledcloser and closer. Running around the station's equator was an artificial cluster ofmetal mountains, docking ports stretching beckoning fingers nearly two kilometersabove the surface.
　　Now only a miniscule speck against the gray bulk of the station, the MillenniumFalcon was sucked toward one of those steel pseudopods and finally swallowed by it.A lake of metal closed off the entryway, and the freighter vanished as if it had neverexisted.
　　Vader stared at the motley array of stars displayed on the conference-room mapwhile Tarkin and Admiral Motti conferred nearby. Interestingly, the first use of themost powerful destructive machine ever constructed had seemingly had no influenceat all on that map, which in itself represented only a tiny fraction of this section of onemodest-sized galaxy.
　　It would take a microbreakdown of a portion of this map to reveal a slightreduction in spatial mass, caused by the disappearance of Alderaan. Alderaan, withits many cities, farms, factories, and towns-and traitors, Vader reminded himself.
　　Despite his advances and intricate technological methods of annihilation, theactions of mankind remained unnoticeable to an uncaring, unimaginably vast universe.If Vader's grandest plans ever came to pass, all that would change.
　　He was well aware that despite all their intelligence and drive, the vastness andwonder were lost on the two men who continued to chatter monkeylike behind him.Tarkin and Motti were talented and ambitious, but they saw things only on the scale ofhuman pettiness. It was a pity, Vader thought, that they did not possess the scope tomatch their abilities.
　　Still, neither man was a Dark Lord. As such, little more could be expected ofthem. These two were useful now, and dangerous, but someday they, like Alderaan,would have to be swept aside. For now he could not afford to ignore them. Andwhile he would have preferred the company of equals, he had to admit reluctantly thatat this point, he had no equals.
　　Nonetheless, he turned to them and insinuated himself into their conversation."The defense systems on Alderaan, despite the Senator's protestations to the contrary,were as strong as any in the Empire. I should conclude that our demonstration wasas impressive as it was thorough."
　　Tarkin turned to him, nodding. "The Senate is being informed of our action atthis very moment. Soon we will be able to announce the extermination of theAlliance itself, as soon as we have dealt with their main military base. Now thattheir main source of munitions, Alderaan, has been eliminated, the rest of thosesystems with secessionist inclinations will fall in line quickly enough, you'll see."
　　Tarkin turned as an Imperial officer entered the chamber. "Yes, what is it,Cass?"
　　The unlucky officer wore the expression of the mouse chosen to bell the cat."Governor, the advance scouts have reached and circumnavigated Dantooine. Theyhave found the remains of a rebel base´, which they estimate has been deserted forsome time. Years, possibly. They are proceeding with an extensive survey of theremainder of the system."
　　Tarkin turned apoplectic, his face darkening to a fine pomegranate fury. "Shelied! She lied to us!"
　　No one could see, but it seemed that Vader must have smiled behind his mask."Then we are even in the first exchange of 'truths.' I told you she would neverbetray the rebellion-unless she thought her confession could somehow destroy us inthe process."
　　"Terminate her immediately!" The Governor was barely able to form words.
　　"Calm yourself, Tarkin," Vader advised him. "You would throw away our onlylink to the real rebel base so casually? She can still be of value to us."
　　"Fagh! You just said it yourself, Vader: we'll get nothing more out of her. I'llfind that hidden fortress if I have to destroy every star system in this sector. I'll-"
　　a quiet yet demanding beep interrupted him. "Yes, what is it?" he inquiredirritably.
　　A voice reported over an unseen speaker. "Sirs, we've captured a smallfreighter that was entering the remains of Alderaan. A standard check indicates thatits markings apparently match that of the ship which blasted its way out of thequarantine at Mos Eisley, Tatooine system, and went hyper before the Imperialblockade craft there could close on it."
　　Tarkin looked puzzled. "Mos Eisley? Tatooine? What is this? What's thisall about, Vader?"
　　"It means, Tarkin, that the last of our unresolved difficulties is about to beeliminated. Someone apparently received the missing data tapes, learned whotranscribed them, and was trying to return them to her. We may be able to facilitatetheir meeting with the Senator."
　　Tarkin started to say something, hesitated, then nodded in understanding. "Howconvenient. I leave this matter in your hands, Vader."
　　The Dark Lord bowed slightly, a gesture, which Tarkin acknowledged withperfunctory salute. Then he spun and strode from the room, leaving Motti lookingfrom man to man in confusion.
　　The freighter sat listlessly in the docking hangar of the huge bay. Thirty armedImperial troopers stood before the lowered man ramp leading into the ship. Theysnapped to attention when Vader and a Commander approached. Vader halted at thebase of the ramp, studying the vessel as an officer and several soldiers came forward.
　　"There was no reply to our repeated signals, sir, so we activated the ramp fromoutside. We've made no contact with anyone aboard either by communicator or inperson," the officer reported.
　　"Send your men in," Vader ordered.
　　Turning, the officer relayed to command to a noncom, who barked orders. Anumber of the heavily armored soldiers made their way up the ramp and entered theouter hold. They advanced with appreciable caution.
　　Inside, two men covered a third as he advanced. Moving in groups of three inthis fashion, they rapidly spread through the ship. Corridors rang hollowly undermetal-shod feet, and doors slid aside willingly as they were activated.
　　"Empty," the Sergeant in charge finally declared in surprise. "Check thecockpit."
　　Several troopers made their way forward and slid the portal aside, only todiscover the pilot's chairs as vacant as the rest of the freighter. The controls weredeactivated and all systems shut down. Only a single light on the console winked onand off fitfully. The sergeant moved forward, recognized the source of the light, andactivated the appropriate controls. A printout appeared on a nearby screen. Hestudied it intently, then turned to convey the information to his superior, who waswaiting by the main hatch.
　　That worthy listened carefully before he turned and called down to theCommander and Vader. "There is no one aboard; the ship is completely deserted,sirs. According to the ship's log, her crew abandoned ship immediately after lift-off,then set her on automatics for Alderaan."
　　"Possibly a decoy," the Commander ventured aloud. "Then they should still beon Tatooine!"
　　"Possibly," Vader admitted reluctantly.
　　"Several of the escape pods have been jettisoned," the officer went on.
　　"Did you find any 'droids on board?" Vader called.
　　"No, sir-nothing. If there were any, they must have abandoned the ship alongwith the organic crew."
　　Vader hesitated before replying. When he did so, uncertainty was evident in hisvoice. "This doesn't feel right. Send a fully equipped scanning team on board. Iwant every centimeter of that ship checked out. See to it as soon as possible."With that, he whirled and stalked from the hangar, pursued by the infuriating feelingthat he was overlooking something of vital importance.
　　The rest of the assembled soldiers were dismissed by the officer. On board thefreighter, a last long figure left off examining the space beneath the cockpit consolesand ran to join his comrades. He was anxious to be off this ghost ship and back inthe comfortable surroundings of the barracks. His heavy footsteps echoed throughthe once more empty freighter.
　　Below, the muffled sounds of the officer giving final orders faded, leaving theinterior in complete quiet. The quivering of a portion of the floor was the onlymovement on board.
　　Abruptly the quivering became a sharp, upheaval. Two metal panels poppedupward, followed by a pair of tousled heads. Han Solo and Luke looked aroundquickly, then managed to relax a little when it became clear that the ship was as emptyas it sounded.
　　"Lucky you'd built these compartments," Luke commented.
　　Solo was not as cheerily confident. "Where did you think I kept smuggledgoods-in the main hold? I admit I never expected to smuggle myself in them."He started violently at a sudden sound, but it was only another of the panels shiftingaside.
　　"This is ridiculous. It isn't going to work. Even if I could take off and getpast the closed hatch"-he jabbed a thumb upward-"we'd never get past that tractorbeam."
　　Another panel opened, revealing the face of an elderly imp. "You leave that tome."
　　"I was afraid you'd say something like that," muttered Solo. "You're a damnfool, old man."
　　Kenobi grinned at him. "What does that say of the man who allows himself tobe hired by a fool?"
　　Solo muttered something under his breath as they pulled themselves clear of thecompartments, Chewbacca doing so with a good deal of grunting and twisting.
　　Two technicians had arrived at the base of the ramp. They reported to the twobored soldiers guarding it.
　　"The ship's all yours," one of the troopers told them. "If the scanners pick upanything, report it immediately."
　　The men nodded, then strained to lug their heavy equipment up the ramp. Assoon as they disappeared inside, a loud crash was heard. Both guards whirled, thenheard a voice call, "Hey, down there, could you give us a hand with this?"
　　One trooper looked at his companion, who shrugged. They both started up theramp, muttering at the inefficiency of mere technicians. A second crashing soundreverberated, but now there was no one left to hear it.
　　But the absence of the two troopers was noticed, soon thereafter. A gantryofficer passing the window of a small command office near the freighter entranceglanced out, frowning when he saw no sign of the guards. Concerned but notalarmed, he moved to a comlink and spoke into it as he continued to stare at the ship.
　　"THX-1138, why aren't you at your post? THX-1138, do you copy?"
　　the speaker gave back only static.
　　"THX-1138, why don't you reply?" The officer was beginning to panic whenan armored figure descended the ramp and waved toward him. Pointing to theportion of his helmet covering his right ear, the figure tapped it to indicate thecomlink inside wasn't working.
　　Shaking his head in disgust, the gantry officer gave his busy aide an annoyedlook as he made for the door. "Take over here. We've got another bad transmitter.I'm going to see what I can do. He activated the door, took a step forward as it slidaside-and stumbled backward in a state of shock.
　　Filling the door completely was a towering hairy form. Chewbacca leanedinward and with a bone-splintering howl flattened the benumbed officer with oneswipe of a pan-sized fist.
　　The aide was already on his feet and reaching for his sidearm when a narrowenergy beam passed completely through him, piercing his heart. Solo flipped up thefaceplate of his trooper helmet, then slid it back into place as he followed the Wookieinto the room. Kenobi and the 'droids squeezed in behind him, with Luke, also cladin the armor of a luckless Imperial soldier, bringing up the rear.
　　Luke was looking around nervously as he shut the door behind them. "Betweenhis howling and your blasting everything in sight, it's a wonder the entire stationdoesn't know we're here."
　　"Bring 'em on," Solo demanded, unreasonably enthused by their success so far."I prefer a straight fight to all this sneaking around.""Maybe you're in a hurry to die," Luke snapped, "but I'm not. All this sneakingaround has kept us alive."
　　The Corellian gave Luke a sour eye but said nothing.
　　They watched as Kenobi operated an incredibly complex computer console withthe ease and confidence of one long accustomed to handling intricate machinery. Ascreen lit up promptly with a map of sections of the battle station. The old manleaned forward, scrutinizing the display carefully.
　　Meanwhile, Threepio and Artoo had been going over an equally complicatedcontrol panel nearby. Artoo suddenly froze and began whistling wildly at somethinghe had found. Solo and Luke, their momentary disagreement over tactics forgotten,rushed over to where the robots were standing. Chewbacca busied himself hangingthe gentry officer up by his toes.
　　"Plug him in," Kenobi suggested, looking over from his place before the largerreadout. "He should be able to draw information from the entire station network.Let's see if he can find out where the tractor beam power unit is located."
　　"Why not just disconnect the beam from here, sir?" Luke wanted to know.
　　It was Solo who replied derisively, "What, and have them lock it right back on usbefore we can get a ship's length outside the docking bay?"
　　Luke looked crestfallen. "Oh. I hadn't thought of that."
　　"We have to break the tractor at its power source in order to execute a cleanescape, Luke," old Ben chided gently as Artoo punched a claw arm into the opencomputer socket he had discovered. Immediately a galaxy of lights came to life onthe panel in front of him and the room was filled with the hum of machinery workingat high speed.
　　Several minutes passed while the little 'droid sucked up information like a metalsponge. Then the hum slowed and he turned to beep something back at them.
　　"He's found it, sir!" Threepio announced excitedly.
　　"The tractor beam is coupled to the main reactors at seven locations. Most ofthe pertinent data is restricted, but he'll try to pull the critical information through tothe monitor."
　　Kenobi turned his attention from the larger screen to a small readout near Artoo.Data began to race across it too fast for Luke to see, but apparently Kenobi somehowmade something of the schematic blur. "I don't think there's any way you boys canhelp with this," he told them. "I must go alone."
　　"That suits me fine," said Solo readily. "I've already done more than Ibargained for on this trip. But I think putting that tractor beam out of commission'sgoing to take more than your magic, old man."
　　Luke wasn't put off so easily. "I want to go with you."
　　"Don't be impatient, young Luke. This requires skills you haven't yet mastered.Stay and wait for my signal. They must be delivered to the rebel forces or manymore worlds will meet the same fate as Alderaan. Trust in the force, Luke-andwait."
　　With a last look at the flow of information on the monitor, Kenobi adjusted thelightsaber at his waist. Stepping to the door, he slid it aside, looked once left, onceright, and, disappeared down a long, glowing hallway.
　　As soon as he was gone Chewbacca growled and Solo nodded agreement."You said it, Chewie!" He turned to Luke. "Where'd you dig up that old fossil?"
　　"Ben Kenobi-General Kenobi-is a great man," Luke protested loftily.
　　"Great at getting us into trouble," Solo snorted. "'General,' my afterburners!He's not going to get us out of here."
　　"You got any better ideas?" Luke shot back challengingly.
　　"Anything would be better than just waiting here for them to come and pick usup. If we-"
　　A hysterical whistling and hooting came from the computer console. Lukehurried over to Artoo Detoo. The little 'droid was all but hopping about on stubbylegs.
　　"What now?" Luke asked Threepio.
　　The taller robot looked puzzled himself. "I'm afraid I don't understand either,sir. He says, 'I found her,' and keeps repeating, 'She's here, she's here!' "
　　"Who? Who has he found?"
　　Artoo turned a flat blinking face toward Luke and whistled frantically.
　　"Princess Leia," the announced after listening carefully. "Senator Organa-they seem to be one and the same. I believe she may be the person in the message hewas carrying."
　　That three-dimensional portrait of indescribable beauty coalesced in Luke's mindagain. "The Princess? She's here?"
　　Attracted by the commotion, Solo wandered over. "Princess? What's goingon?"
　　"Where? Where is she?" Luke demanded breathlessly, ignoring Solocompletely.
　　Artoo whistled on while Threepio translated. "Level five, detention block AA-23. According to the information, she is scheduled for slow termination."
　　"No! We've got to do something."
　　"What are you three blabbering about?" an exasperated Solo demanded.
　　"She's the one who programmed the message into Artoo Detoo," Luke explainedhurriedly, "the one we were trying to deliver to Alderaan. We've got to help her."
　　"Now, just a minute," Solo cautioned him. "This is going awful fast for me.Don't get any funny ideas. When I said I didn't have any 'better ideas' I meant it.The old man said to wait here. I don't like it, but I'm not going off on some crazymaze through this place."
　　"But Ben didn't know she was here," Luke half pleaded, half argued. "I'm surethat if he knew he would have changed his plans." Anxiety turned to thoughtfulness."Now, if we could just figure a way to get into that detention block´"
　　Solo shook his head and stepped back. "Huh-uh-I'm not going into anyImperial detention blocks."
　　"If we don't do something, they're going to execute her. A minute ago you saidyou didn't just want to sit here and wait to be captured. Now all you want to do isstay. Which is it, Han?"
　　The Corellian looked troubled-and confused. "Marching into a detentionarea's not what I had in mind. We're likely to end up there anyway-why rush it?"
　　"But they're going to execute her!"
　　"Better her than me."
　　"Where's your sense of chivalry, Han?"
　　Solo considered. "Near as I can recall, I traded it for a ten-carat chrysopaz andthree bottles of good brandy about five years ago on Commenor."
　　"I've seen her," Luke persisted desperately. "She's beautiful."
　　"So's life."
　　"She's a rich and powerful Senator," Luke pressed, hoping an appeal to Solo'sbaser instincts might be more effective. "If we could save her, the reward could besubstantial."
　　"Uh´rich?" Then Solo looked disdainful. "Wait a minute´Reward, fromwhom? From the government on Alderaan?" He made a sweeping gesture towardthe hangar and by implication the space where Alderaan had once orbited.
　　Luke thought furiously. "If she's being held here and is scheduled to beexecuted, that means she must be dangerous in some way to whoever destroyedAlderaan, to whoever had this station built. You can bet it had something to do withthe Empire instituting a reign of full repression.
　　"I'll tell you who'll pay for her rescue, and for the information she holds. TheSenate, the rebel Alliance, and every concern that did business with Alderaan. Shecould be the sole surviving heir of the off-world wealth of the entire system! Thereward could be more than you can imagine."
　　"I don't know´I can imagine quite a bit." He glanced at Chewbacca, whogrunted a terse reply. Solo shrugged back at the big Wookie. "All right, we'll giveit a try. But you'd better be right about that reward. What's your plan, kid?"
　　Luke was momentarily taken aback. Al his energies up till now had beenconcentrated on persuading Solo and Chewbacca to aid in a rescue attempt. Thataccomplished, Luke became aware he had no idea how to proceed. He had grownused to old Ben and Solo giving directions. Now the next move was up to him.
　　His eyes were caught by several metal circlets dangling from the belt of Solo'sarmor. "Give me those binders and tell Chewbacca to come over there."
　　Solo handed Luke the thin but quite unbreakable cuffs and relayed the request toChewbacca. The Wookie lumbered over and stood waiting next to Luke.
　　"Now, I'm going to put these on you," Luke began, starting to move behind theWookie with the cuffs, "and-"
　　Chewbacca made a sound low in his throat, and Luke jumped in spite of himself."Now," he began again, "Han is going to put these on you and´" he sheepishlyhanded the binders to Solo, uncomfortably aware of the enormous anthropoid'sglowing eyes on him.
　　Solo sounded amused as he moved forward. "Don't worry, Chewie. I think Iknow what he has in mind."
　　The cuffs barely fit around the thick wrists. Despite his partner's seemingconfidence in the plan, the Wookie wore a worried, frightened look as the restraintswere activated.
　　"Luke, sir." Luke looked over at Threepio. "Pardon me for asking, but ah-what should Artoo and I do if someone discovers us here in your absence?"
　　"Hope they don't have blasters," Solo replied.
　　Threepio's tone indicated he didn't find the answer humorous. "That isn't veryreassuring."
　　Solo and Luke were too engrossed in their coming expedition to pay muchattention to the worried robot. They adjusted their helmets. Then, with Chewbaccawearing a half-real downcast expression, they started off along corridor where BenKenobi had disappeared.

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
    

A New Hope
IX

　　As they traveled father and deeper into the bowels of the gigantic station, they foundit increasingly difficult to maintain an air of casual indifference. Fortunately, thosewho might have sensed some nervousness on the part of the two armored trooperswould regard it as only natural, considering their huge, dangerous Wookie captive.Chewbacca also made it impossible for the two young men to be as inconspicuous asthey would have liked. 
　　The farther they traveled, the heavier the traffic became. Other soldiers,bureaucrats, technicians, and mechanicals bustled around them. Intent on their ownassignments, they ignored the trio completely, only a few of the humans sparing theWookie a curious glance. Chewbacca's morose expression and the seemingconfidence of his captors reassured the inquisitive.
　　Eventually they reached a wide bank of elevators. Luke breathed a sigh ofrelief. The computer-controlled transport ought to be capable of taking them justabout anywhere on the station in response to a verbal command.
　　There was a nervous second when a minor official raced to get aboard. Sologestured sharply, and the other, without voicing a protest, shifted to the next elevatortube in line.
　　Luke studied the operating panel, then tried to sound at once knowledgeable andimportant as he spoke into the pickup grid. Instead, he sounded nervous and scared,but the elevator was a pure-response mechanism, not programmed to differentiate theappropriateness of emotions conveyed vocally. So the door slid shut and they wereon their way. After what felt like hours but was in reality only minutes, the dooropened and they stepped out into the security area.
　　It had been Luke's hope they would discover something like the old-fashionedbarred cells of the kind used on Tatooine in towns like Mos Eisley. Instead, they sawonly narrow ramps bordering a bottomless ventilation shaft. These walkways,several levels of them, ran parallel to smooth curving walls which held facelessdetention cells. Alert-looking guards and energy gates seemed to be everywherethey looked.
　　Uncomfortably aware that the longer they stood frozen in place, the soonersomeone was bound to come over and ask unanswerable questions, Luke searchedfrantically for a course of action.
　　"This isn't going to work," Solo whispered, leaning toward him.
　　"Why didn't you say so before?" a frustrated, frightened Luke shot back.
　　"I think I did. I-"
　　"Shssh!"
　　Solo shuts up Luke's worst fears were realized. A tall, grim-looking officerapproached them. He frowned as he examined the silent Chewbacca.
　　"Where are you two going with this-thing?"
　　Chewbacca snarled at the remark, and Solo quieted him with a hasty jab in theribs. A panicky Luke found himself replying almost instinctively. "Prisonertransfer from block TS-138."
　　The officer looked puzzled. "I wasn't notified. I'll have to clear it."
　　Turning, the man walked to a small console nearby and began entering hisrequest. Luke and Han hurriedly surveyed the situation, their gaze traveling fromalarms, energy gates, and remote photosensors to the three other guards station in thearea.
　　Solo nodded to Luke as he unfastened Chewbacca's cuffs. Then he whisperedsomething to the Wookie. An ear-splitting howl shook the corridor as Chewbaccathrew up both hands, grabbing Solo's rifle from him.
　　"Look out!" a seemingly terrified Solo shouted. "It's loose. It'll rip us allapart!"
　　both he and Luke had darted clear of the rampaging Wookie, pulled out theirpistols, and were blasting away at him. Their reaction was excellent, theirenthusiasm undeniable, and their aim execrable. Not a single shot came close to thedodging Wookie. Instead, they blasted automatic cameras, energy-rate controls, andthe three dumbfounded guards.
　　At this point it occurred to the officer in charge that the abominable aim of thetwo soldiers was a bit too selectively efficient. He was preparing to jab the generalalarm when a burst from Luke's pistol caught him in the midsection and he fellwithout a word to the gray deck.
　　Solo rushed to the open comlink speaker, which was screeching anxiousquestions about what was going on. Apparently there were audio as well as visuallinks between this detention station and elsewhere.
　　Ignoring the barrage of alternate threats and queries, he checked the readout setin the panel nearby. "We've got to find out which cell this Princess of yours is in.There must a dozen levels and-Here it is. Cell 2187. Go on-Chewie and I'llhold them here."
　　Luke nodded once and was racing down the narrow walkway.
　　After gesturing for the Wookie to take up a position where he could cover theelevators, Solo took a deep breath and responded to the unceasing calls from thecomlink.
　　"Everything's under control," he said into the pickup, sounding reasonablyofficial. "Situation normal."
　　"It didn't sound like that," a voice snapped back in a no-nonsense tone. "Whathappened?"
　　"Uh, well, one of the guards experienced a weapon malfunction," Solostammered, his temporary officialese lapsing into nervousness. "No problem now-we're all fine, thanks. How about you?"
　　"We're sending a squad up," the voice announced suddenly.
　　Han could almost smell the suspicion at the other end. What to say? Hespoke more eloquently with the business end of a pistol.
　　"Negative-negative. We have an energy leak-very dangerous."
　　"Weapon malfunction, energy leak´Who is this? What's your operating-?"
　　Pointing his pistol at the panels, Solo blew the instrumentation to silent scraps."It was a dumb conversation anyway," he murmured. Turning, he shouted down thecorridor. "Hurry it up. Luke! We're going to have company."
　　Luke heard, but he was absorbed in running from one cell to the next andstudying the numbers glowing above each doorway. The cell 2187, it appeared, didnot exist. But it did, and he found it just as he was about to give up and try the nextlevel down.
　　For a long moment he examined the featureless convex metal wall. Turning hispistol to maximum and hoping it wouldn't melt in his hand before it broke through, heopened fire on the door. When the weapon became too hot to hold, he tossed it fromhand to hand. As he did so the smoke had time to clear, and he saw with somesurprise that the door had been blown away.
　　Peering through the smoke with an uncomprehending look on her face was theyoung woman whose portrait Artoo Detoo had projected in a garage on Tatooineseveral centuries ago, or it seemed.
　　She was even more beautiful than her image, Luke decided, staring dazedly ather. "You're even-more beautiful-than I-"
　　Her look of confusion and uncertainty was replaced by first puzzlement and thenimpatience. "Aren't you a littler short for a storm trooper?" she finally commented.
　　"What? Oh-the uniform." He removed the helmet, regaining a littlecomposure at the same time. "I've come to rescue you. I'm Luke Skywalker."
　　"I beg your pardon?" she said politely.
　　"I said, I've come to rescue you. Ben Kenobi is with me. We've got yourtwo 'droids-"
　　The uncertainty was instantly replaced by hope at the mention of the oldster'sname. "Ben Kenobi!" She looked around Luke, ignoring him as she searched forthe Jedi. "Where is he? Obi-wan!"
　　Governor Tarkin watched as Darth Vader paced rapidly back and forth in theotherwise empty conference room. Finally the Dark Lord paused, glancing aroundas though a great bell only he could hear had rung somewhere close by.
　　"He is here," Vader stated unemotionally.
　　Tarkin looked startled. "Obi-wan Kenobi! That's impossible. What makesyou think so?"
　　"A stirring in the force, of a kind I've felt only in the presence of my old master.It is unmistakable."
　　"Surely-surely he must be dead by now."
　　Vader hesitated, his assurance suddenly gone. "Perhaps´It is gone now. Itwas only a brief sensation."
　　"The Jedi are extinct," declared Tarkin positively. "Their fire was quencheddecades ago. You, my friend, are all that's left of their ways."
　　A comlink buzzed softly for attention. "Yes?" Tarkin acknowledged.
　　"We have an emergency alert in detention block AA-23."
　　"The Princess!" Tarkin yelped, jumping to his feet. Vader whirled, trying tostare through the walls.
　　"I know it-Obi-wan is here. I knew I could not mistake a stirring in the forceof such power."
　　"Put all sections on alert," Tarkin ordered through the comlink. Then he turnedto stare at Vader. "If you're right, he must not be allowed to escape."
　　"Escape may not be Obi-wan Kenobi's intention," Vader replied, struggling tocontrol his emotions. "He is the last of the Jedi-and the greatest. The danger hepresents to us must not be underestimated-yet only I can deal with him." His headsnapped around to stare fixedly at Tarkin. "Alone."
　　Luke and Leia had started back up the corridor when a series of blindingexplosion ripped the walkway ahead of them. Several troopers had tried comingthrough the elevator, only to be crisped one after another by Chewbacca. Disdainingthe elevators, they had blasted a gaping hole through a wall. The opening was toolarge for Solo and the Wookie to cover completely. In twos and threes, the Imperialswere working their way into the detention block.
　　Retreating down the walkway, Han and Chewbacca encountered Luke and thePrincess. "We can't go back that way!" Solo told them, his face flushed withexcitement and worry.
　　"No, it looks like you've managed to cut off our only escape route," Leia agreedreadily. "This is a detention area, you know. They don't build them with multipleexits."
　　Breathing heavily, Solo turned to look her up and down. "Begging yourforgiveness, Your Highness," he said sarcastically, "but maybe you'd prefer it back inyour cell?" She looked away, her face impassive.
　　"There's got to be another way out," Luke muttered, pulling a small transmitterunit from his belt and carefully adjusting the frequency: "See Threepio´SeeThreepio!"
　　a familiar voice responded with gratifying speed. "Yes, sir?"
　　"We've been cut off here. Are there any other ways out of the detention area-anything at all?"
　　Static crackled over the tiny grid as Solo and Chewbacca kept the imperial troopsbottled up at the other end of the walkway.
　　"What was that´? I didn't copy."
　　Back in the gentry office Artoo Detoo beeped and whistled frantically asThreepio adjusted controls, fighting to clear the awkward transmission. "I said, allsystems have been alerted to your presence, sir. The main entry seems to be the onlyway in or out of the cell block." He pressed instruments, and the view on the nearbyreadouts changed steadily. "All other information on your section is restricted."
　　Someone began banging on the locked door to the office-evenly at first andthen, when no response was forthcoming from within, more insistently.
　　"Oh, no!" Threepio groaned.
　　The smoke in the cell corridor was now so intense that it was difficult for Soloand Chewbacca to pick their targets. That was fortunate inasmuch as they were nowbadly outnumbered and the smoke confused the Imperials' fire with equalthoroughness.
　　Every so often one of the soldiers would attempt to move closer, only to standexposed as he penetrated the smoke. Under the accurate fire of the two smugglers,he would rapidly join the accumulating mass of motionless figures on the rampwayflooring.
　　Energy bolts continued to ricochet wildly through the block as Luke moved closeto Solo.
　　"There isn't other way out." he yelled over the deafening roar of concentratedfire.
　　"Well, they're closing in on us. What do we do now?"
　　"This is some rescue," an irritated voice complained from behind them. Bothmen turned to see a thoroughly disgusted Princess eyeing them with regal disapproval."When you came in here, didn't you have a plan of getting out?"
　　Solo nodded toward Luke. "He's the brains, sweetheart."
　　Luke managed an embarrassed grin and shrugged helplessly. He turned to helpreturn fire, but before he could do so, the Princess had snatched the pistol from hishand.
　　"Hey!"
　　Luke stared as she moved along the wall, finally locating a small grate nearby.She pointed the pistol at it and fired.
　　Solo gazed at her in disbelief. "What do you think you're doing?"
　　"It looks like it's up to me to save our skins. Get into the garbage chute,flyboy!"
　　While the others looked on in amazement, she jumped feet first into the openingand disappeared. Chewbacca rumbled threateningly, but Solo slowly shook his head.
　　"No, Chewie, I don't want you to rip her apart. I'm not sure about her yet.Either I'm beginning to like her, or I'm going to kill her myself." The Wookiesnorted something else, and Solo yelled back at him, "Go on in, you furry oaf! Idon't care what you smell. This is no time to go dainty on me."
　　Shoving the reluctant Wookie toward the tiny opening, Solo helped jam themassive bulk through. As soon as he disappeared, the Corellian followed him in.Luke fired off the last series of blasts, more in the hope of creating a covering smokethan hitting anything, slid into the chute, and was gone.
　　Not wanting to incur further losses in such a confined space, the pursuingsoldiers had momentarily halted to await the arrival of reinforcements and heavierweapons. Besides, they had their quarry trapped, and despite their dedication, noneof them were anxious to die needlessly.
　　The chamber Luke tumbled into was dimly lit. not that the light was needed todiscern its contents. He smelled the decay long before he was dumped into it.Unadorned except for the concealed illuminants, the garbage room was at least aquarter full of slimy muck, much of which had already achieved a state ofdecomposition sufficient to wrinkle Luke's nose.
　　Solo was stumbling around the edge of the room, slipping and sinking up to hisknees in the uncertain footing in an attempt to locate an exit. Al he found was asmall, thick hatchway, which he grunted and heaved to pry open. The hatchcoverrefused to budge.
　　"The garbage chute was a wonderful idea," he told the Princess sardonically,wiping the sweat from his forehead. "What an incredible smell you've discovered.Unfortunately, we can't ride out here on a drifting odor, and there doesn't seem to beany other exit. Unless I can get this hatch open."
　　Stepping back, he pulled his pistol and fired at the cover. The bolt promptlywent howling around the room as everyone sought cover in the garbage. A lastglance and the bolt detonated almost on top of them.
　　Looking less dignified by the moment, Leia was the first to emerge from thepungent cover. "Put that thing away," she told Solo grimly, "or you're going to getus all killed."
　　"Yes, Your Worship," Solo muttered in snide supplication. He made no moveto reholster his weapon as he glanced back up toward the open chute above. "Itwon't take long for them to figure out what happened to us. We had things wellunder control-until you led us down here."
　　"Sure you did," she shot back, brushing refuse from her hair and shoulders."Oh, well, it could be worse´"
　　As if in reply, a piercing, horrible moaning filled the room. It seemed to comefrom somewhere beneath them. Chewbacca let out a terrified yowl of his own andtried to flatten himself against a wall. Luke drew his own pistol and peered hard atvarious clumps of debris, but saw nothing.
　　"What was that?" Solo asked.
　　"I'm not too sure." Luke suddenly jumped, looking down and behind him."Something just moved past me, I think. Watch out-"
　　With shocking suddenness Luke disappeared straight down into the garbage.
　　"It's got Luke!" the Princess shouted. "It took him under!" Solo lookedaround frantically for something to shoot at.
　　As abruptly as he had vanished, Luke reappeared-and so did part of somethingelse. A thick whitish tentacle was wrapped tight around his throat.
　　"Shoot it, kill it!" Luke screamed.
　　"Shoot it! I can't even see it," Solo protested.
　　Once again Luke was sucked under by whatever that gruesome appendage wasattached to. Solo stared helplessly around the multicolored surface.
　　There was a distant rumble of heavy machinery, and two opposing walls of thechamber moved inward several centimeters. The rumble ceased and then it wasquiet again. Luke appeared unexpectedly close to Solo, scrabbling his way clear ofthe suffocating mess and rubbing at the welt on his neck.
　　"What happened to it?" Leia wondered, eyeing the quiescent garbage warily.
　　Luke looked genuinely puzzled. "I don't know. It had me-and then I wasfree. It just let me go and disappeared. Maybe I didn't smell bad enough for it."
　　"I've got a very bad feeling about this," Solo murmured.
　　Again the distant rumble filled the room; again the walls began their inwardmarch. Only this time neither sound nor movement showed any sign of stopping.
　　"Don't just stand there gaping at each other!" the Princess urged them. "Try tobrace them with something.
　　Even with the thick poles and old metal beams Chewbacca could handle, theywere unable to find anything capable of slowing the walls' advance. It seemed as ifthe stronger the object was that they placed against the walls, the easier it wassnapped. Luke pulled out his comlink, simultaneously trying to talk and will thewalls to retreat. "Threepio´come in, Threepio!" A decent paused produced noresponse, causing Luke to look worriedly at his companions.
　　"I don't know why he doesn't answer." He tried again. "See Threepio, comein. Do you read?"
　　"See Threepio," the muted voice continued to call, "come in, See Threepio." Itwas Luke's voice and it issued softly in between buzzings from the small handcomlink resting on the deserted computer console. Save for the intermittent pleading,the gantry office was silent.
　　A tremendous explosion drowned out the muffled pleadings. It blew the officedoor clean across the room, sending metal fragments flying in all directions. Severalof them struck the comlink, sending it flying to the floor and cutting off Luke's voicein midtransmission.
　　In the wake of the minor cataclysm four armed and ready troopers enteredthrough the blown portal. Initial study indicated the office was deserted-until adim, frightened voice was heard coming from one of the tall supply cabinets near theback of the room.
　　"Help, help! Let us out!"
　　Several of the troopers bent to inspect the immobile bodies of the gantry officerand his aide while others opened the noisy cabinet. Two robots, one tall andhumanoid, the other purely mechanical and three-legged, stepped out into the office.The taller one gave the impression of being half unbalanced with fear.
　　"They're madmen, I tell you, madmen!" He gestured urgently toward thedoorway. "I think they said something about heading for the prison level. Theyjust left. If you hurry, you might catch them. That way, that way!"
　　Two of the troopers inside joined those waiting in the hallway in hustling offdown the corridor. That left two guards to watch over the office. They totallyignored the robots as they discussed what might have taken place.
　　"All the excitement has overloaded the circuitry in my companion here,"Threepio explained carefully. "If you don't mind, I'd like to take him down toMaintenance."
　　"Hmmm?" One of the guards looked up indifferently and nodded to the robot.Threepio and Artoo hurried out the door without looking back. As they departed itoccurred to the guard that the taller of the two 'droids was of a type he had never seenbefore. He shrugged. That was not surprising on a station of this size.
　　"That was too close," Threepio muttered as they scurried down an emptycorridor. "Now we'll have to find another information-control console and plug youback in, or everything is lost."
　　The garbage chamber grew remorselessly smaller, the smoothly fitting metalwalls moving toward one another with stolid precision. Larger pieces of refuseperformed a concerto of snapping and popping that was rising toward a finalshuddering crescendo.
　　Chewbacca whined pitifully as he fought with all his incredible strength andweight to hold back one of the walls, looking like a hirsute Tantalus approaching hisfinal summit.
　　"One thing's for sure," Solo noted unhappily. "We're all going to be muchthinner. This could prove popular for slimming . The only trouble is itspermanence."
　　Luke paused for breath, shaking the innocent comlink angrily. "What couldhave happened to Threepio?"
　　"Try the hatch again," advised Leia. "It's our only hope."
　　Solo shielded his eyes and did so. The ineffectual blast echoed mockinglythrough the narrowing chamber.
　　The service bay was unoccupied, everyone apparently having been drawn awayby the commotion elsewhere. After a cautious survey of the room Threepiobeckoned for Artoo to follow. Together they commenced a hurried search of themany service panels. Artoo let out a beep, and Threepio rushed to him. He waitedimpatiently as the smaller unit plugged the receptive arm carefully into the opensocket.
　　A superfast flurry of electronics spewed in undisciplined fashion from the grid ofthe little 'droid. Threepio made cautioning motions.
　　"Wait a minute, slow down!" The sounds dropped to a crawl. "That's better.They're where? They what? Oh, no! They'll only come out of there as liquid!"
　　Less than a meter of life was left to the trapped occupants of the garbage room.Leia and Solo had been forced to turn sideways, had ended up facing each other. Forthe first time the haughtiness was gone from the Princess's face. Reaching out, shetook Solo's hand, clutching it convulsively as she felt the first touch of the closingwalls.
　　Luke had fallen and was lying on his side, fighting to keep his head above therising ooze. He nearly choked on a mouthful of compressed sludge when hiscomlink began buzzing for attention.
　　"Threepio!"
　　"Are you there, sir?" the 'droid replied. "We've had some minor problems.You would not believe-"
　　"Shut up, Threepio!" Luke screamed into the unit. "And shut down all therefuse units on the detention level or immediately below it. Do you copy? Shutdown the refuse-"
　　Moments later Threepio grabbed at his head in pain as a terrific screeching andyelling sounded over the comlink.
　　"No, shut them all down!" he implored Artoo. "Hurry! Oh, listen to them-they're dying, Artoo! I curse this metal body of mine. I was not fast enough. Itwas my fault. My poor master-all of them´no, no, no!"
　　the screaming and yelling, however, continued far beyond what seemed like areasonable interval. In fact, they were shouts of relief. The chamber walls hadreversed direction automatically with Artoo's shutdown and were moving apart again.
　　"Artoo, Threepio," Luke hollered into the comlink, "it's all right, we're all right!Do you read me? We're okay-you did just fine."
　　Brushing distastefully at the clinging slime, he made his way as rapidly aspossible toward the hatchcover. Bending, he scraped accumulated detritus away,noting the number thus revealing.
　　"Open the pressure-maintenance hatch on unit 366-117891."
　　"Yes, sir," came Threepio's acknowledgment.
　　They may have been the happiest words Luke had ever heard.

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
    

A New Hope
X

　　Lined with power cables and circuitry conduits that rose from the depths and vanishedinto the heavens, the service trench appeared to be hundreds of kilometers deep. Thenarrow catwalk running around one side looked like a starched thread glued on aglowing ocean. It was barely wide enough for one man to traverse. 
　　One man edged his way along that treacherous walkway now, his gaze intent onsomething ahead of him instead of the awesome metal abyss below. The clackingsounds of enormous switching devices resounded like captive leviathans in the vastopen space, tireless and never sleeping.
　　Two thick cables joined beneath an overlay panel. It was locked, but aftercareful inspection of sides, top and bottom, Ben Kenobi pressed the panel cover in aparticular fashion causing it to spring aside. A blinking computer terminal wasrevealed beneath.
　　With equal care he performed several adjustments to the terminal. His actionswere rewarded when several indicator lights on the board changed from red to blue.
　　Without warning, a secondary door close behind him opened. Hurriedlyreclosing the panel cover, the old man slipped deeper into the shadows. Adetachment of troopers had appeared in the portal, and the officer in charge moved towithin a couple of meters of the motionless, hidden figure.
　　"Secure this area until the alert has been cancelled."
　　As they began to disperse, Kenobi became one with the dark.
　　Chewbacca grunted and wheezed, and barely succeeded in forcing his thick torsothrough the hatchway opening with Luke's and Solo's help. That accomplished,Luke turned to take stock of their surroundings.
　　The hallway they had emerged into showed dust on the floor. It gave theimpression of not having been used since the station had been built. Probably it wasonly a repair access corridor. He had no idea where they were.
　　Something hit the wall behind them with a massive thunk, and Luke yelled foreveryone to watch out as a long, gelatinous limb worked its way through the hatchand flailed hopefully about in the open corridor. Solo aimed his pistol at it as Leiatried to slip past the half-paralyzed Chewbacca.
　　"Somebody get this big hairy walking carpet out of my way." Suddenly shenoticed what Solo was preparing to do. "No, wait! It'll be heard!"
　　Solo ignored her and fired at the hatchway. The burst of energy was rewardedwith a distant roar as an avalanche of weakened wall and beaming all but buried thecreature in the chamber beyond.
　　Magnified by the narrow corridor, the sounds continued to roll and echo for longminutes afterward. Luke shook his head in disgust, realizing that someone like Solowho spoke with the mouth of a gun might not always act sensibly. Until now he hadsort of looked up to the Corellian. But the senseless gesture of firing at the hatchwaybrought them, for the first time in Luke's mind, to the same level.
　　The Princess's actions were more surprising than Solo's however. "Listen," shebegan, staring up at him, "I don't know where you came from, but I'm grateful."Almost as an afterthought she glanced back at Luke, adding, "To both of you." Herattention turned back to Solo. "But from now on you do as I tell you."
　　Solo gaped at her. This time the smug smile wouldn't come. "Look, YourHoliness," he was finally able to stammer, "let's get something straight. I takeorders only from one person-me."
　　"It's a wonder you're still alive," she shot back smoothly. A quick look downthe corridor and she had started determinedly off in the other direction.
　　Solo looked at Luke, started to say something, then hesitated and simply shookhis head slowly. "No reward is worth this. I don't know if there's enough credit inthe universe to pay for putting up with her´Hey, slow down!"
　　Leia had started around a bend in the corridor, and they ran swiftly to catch upwith her.
　　The half dozen troops milling around the entrance to the power trench were moreinterested in discussing the peculiar disturbance in the detention block than in payingattention to their present boring duty. So engrossed were they in speculation as tothe cause of the trouble that they failed to notice the fey wraith behind them. Itmoved from shadow to shadow like a night-stalking ferret, freezing when one of thetroopers seemed to turn slightly in its direction, moving on again as if walking on air.
　　Several minutes later one of the troopers frowned inside his armor, turning towhere he thought he had sensed a movement near the opening to the main passageway.There was nothing but an undefinable something, which the ghost-like Kenobi hadleft behind. Acutely uncomfortable yet understandably unwilling to confess tohallucinations, the trooper turned back to the more prosaic conversation of his fellows. Someone finally discovered the two unconscious guards tied in the service lockerson board the captured freighter. Both men remained comatose despite all efforts torevive them.
　　Under the direction of several bickering officers, troopers carried their twoarmorless comrades down the ramp and toward the nearest hospital bay. On the waythey passed two forms hidden by a small opened service panel. Threepio and Artoowent unnoticed, despite their proximity to the hangar.
　　As soon as the troops had passed, Artoo finished removing a socket cover andhurriedly shoved his sensor arm into the opening. Lights commenced a wild flashingon his face and smoke started issuing from several seams in the small 'droid before afrantic Threepio could pull the arm free.
　　Immediately the smoke vanished, the undisciplined blinking faded to normalcy.Artoo emitted a few wilted beeps, successfully giving the impression of a human whohad expected a glass of mild wine and instead unwittingly downed several gulps ofsomething 180 proof.
　　"Well, next time watch where you stick your sensors," Threepio chastised hiscompanion. "You could have fried your insides." He eyed the socket. "That's apower outlet, stupid, not an information terminal."
　　Artoo whistled a mournful apology. Together they hunted for the proper outlet.
　　Luke, Solo, Chewbacca and the Princess reached the end of an empty hallway.It dead-ended before a large window, which overlooked a hangar, giving them asweeping, tantalizing view of the freighter just below.
　　Pulling out his comlink and looking around them with increasing nervousness,Luke spoke into the pickup. "See Threepio´do you copy?"
　　There was a threatening pause, then, "I read you, sir. We had to abandon theregion around the office."
　　"Are you both safe?"
　　"For the moment, though I'm not sanguine about my old age. We're in themain hangar, across from the ship."
　　Luke looked toward the bay window in surprise. "I can't see you across thebay-we must be right above you. Stand by. We'll join you as soon as we can."He clicked off, smiling suddenly at Threepio's reference to his "old age."Sometimes the tall 'droid was more human than people.
　　"Wonder if the old man was able to knock out the tractors." Solo was mutteringas he surveyed the scene below. A dozen or so troopers were moving in and out ofthe freighter.
　　"Getting back to the ship's going to be like flying through the five Fire Rings ofFornax." Leia Organa turned long enough to glance in surprise from the ship to Solo."You came here in that wreck? You're braver than I thought."
　　At once praised and insulted, Solo wasn't sure how to react. He settled forgiving her a dirty look as they started back down the hallway, Chewbacca bringing upthe rear.
　　Rounding a corner, the three humans came to an abrupt halt. So did the twentyImperial troopers marching toward them. Reacting naturally-which is to say,without thinking-Solo drew his pistol and charged the platoon, yelling and howlingin several languages at the top of his lungs.
　　Startled by the totally unexpected assault and wrongly assuming their attackerknew what he was doing, the troopers started to back away. Several wild shots fromthe Corellian's pistol initiated complete panic. Ranks and composure shattered, thetroopers broke and fled down the passage.
　　Drunk with his own prowess, Solo continued the chase, turning to shout back atLuke, "Get to the ship. I'll take care of these!"
　　"Are you out of your mind?" Luke yelled at him. "Where do you think you'regoing?"
　　But Solo had already rounded a far bend in the corridor and didn't hear. Notthat it would have made any difference.
　　Upset at his partner's disappearance, Chewbacca let out a thunderous if unsettledhowl and rushed down the hallway after him. That left Luke and Leia standing alonein the empty corridor.
　　"Maybe I was too hard on your friend," he confessed reluctantly. "He certainlyis courageous."
　　"He certainly is an idiot!" a furious Luke countered tightly. "I don't know whatgood it'll do us if he gets himself killed." Muted alarms suddenly sounded from thebay below and behind them.
　　"That's done it," Luke growled disgustedly. "Let's go." Together they startedoff in search of a way down to a hangar-deck level.
　　Solo continued his rout of all opposition, running at top speed down the longhallway, yelling and brandishing his pistol. Occasionally he got off a shot whoseeffect was more valuable psychologically than tactically.
　　Half the troops had already scattered down various subpassages and corridors.The ten troopers he continued to harry still raced headlong away from him, up againsta dead end, which forced them to turn and confront their opponents.
　　Seeing that the ten had halted, Solo likewise slowed. Gradually he came to acomplete stop. Corellian and Imperials regarded one another silently. Several ofthe troopers were staring, not at Han but past him.
　　It suddenly occurred to Solo that he was very much alone, and the same thoughtwas beginning to seep into the minds of the guards he was confronting.Embarrassment gave way rapidly to anger. Rifles and pistols started to come up.Solo took a step backward, fired one shot, then turned and ran like hell.
　　Chewbacca heard the whistle and crump of energy weapons firing as helumbered lightly down the corridor. There was something odd about them, though:they sounded as if they were coming closer instead of moving away.
　　He was debating what to do when Solo came tearing around a corner and nearlyran him down. Seeing ten troopers in pursuit, the Wookie decided to reserve hisquestion for a less confused moment. He turned and followed Solo back up thehallway.
　　Luke grabbed the Princess and pulled her back into a recess. She was about toretort angrily at his brusqueness when the sound of marching feet caused her to shrinkback into the darkness with him.
　　A squad of soldiers hurried past, responding to the alarms that continued to ringsteadily. Luke looked out at the retreating backs and tried to catch his breath. "Ouronly hope of reaching the ship is from the other side of the hangar. They alreadyknow someone's here." He started back down the corridor, motioning for her tofollow.
　　Two guards appeared at the far end of the passageway, paused, and pointeddirectly at them. Turning, Luke and Leia began running back the way they had come.A larger squad of troopers rounded the far bend and came racing toward them.
　　Blocking ahead and behind, they hunted frantically for another way out. ThenLeia spotted the cramped subhallway and gestured to it.
　　Luke fired at the nearest of their pursuers and joined her in running down thepassage. It looked like a minor service corridor. Behind them, pursuit soundeddeafeningly loud in the confining space. But at least it minimized the amount of firethe troops could concentrate on them.
　　A thick hatchway appeared ahead. The lighting beyond turned dimmer, raisingLuke's hopes. If they could lock the hatch even for a few moments and lostthemselves somewhere beyond, they might have a chance of shaking their immediatetormentors.
　　But the hatch stayed open, showing no inclination to close automatically. Lukewas about to let out a shout of triumph when the ground suddenly vanished ahead ofhim. His toes hanging over nothingness, he failed to regain his balance, succeedingjust in time to nearly go over the edge of the retracted catwalk anyway as the Princessplowed into him from behind.
　　The catwalk had been reduced to a stub protruding into empty air. A cool draftcaressed Luke's face as he studied walls that soared to unseen heights overhead andplunged to fathomless depths below. The service shaft was employed in circulatingand recycling the atmosphere of the station.
　　At the moment Luke was too frightened and concerned to be angry with thePrincess for his attention. A burst of energy exploded above their heads, sendingmetal slivers flying.
　　"I think we made a wrong turn," he murmured, firing back at the advancingtroops and illuminating the narrow corridor behind them with destruction.
　　An open hatchway showed on the other side of the chasm. It might as wellhave been a light-year away. Hunting along the rim of the doorway, Leia located aswitch and hit it quickly. The hatch door behind them slid shut with a resoundingboom. At least that cut off the fire from the rapidly nearing soldiers. It also left thetwo fugitives balanced precariously on a small section of catwalk barely a metersquare. If the remaining section were to unexpectedly withdraw into the wall, theywould see more of the battle station's interior than either wished.
　　Gesturing for the Princess to move aside as much as possible, Luke shielded hiseyes and aimed the pistol at the hatch controls. A brief burst of energy melted themflush with the wall, insuring that no one could open it easily from the other side.Then he turned his attention to the vast cavity blocking their path to the oppositeportal. It beckoned invitingly-a small yellow rectangle of freedom.
　　Only the soft rush of air from below sounded until Luke commented, "This is ashield-rated door, but it won't hold them back very long."
　　"We've got to get across there somehow," Leia agreed, once more examining themetal bordering the sealed doorway. "Find the controls for extending the bridge."
　　Some desperate searching produced nothing, while an ominous pounding andhissing sounded from behind the frozen door. A small spot of white appeared in thecenter of the metal, then began to spread and smoke.
　　"They're coming through!" Luke groaned.
　　The Princess turned carefully to stare across the gap. "This must be a single-unit bridge, with the controls only on the other side."
　　Reaching up to the point at the panel holding the unreachable controls, Luke'shand caught on something at his waist. A frustrated glance downward revealed thecause-and engendered a bit of practical insanity.
　　The cable coiled tightly in small loops was thin and fragile seeming, but it wasgeneral military-issue line and would have supported Chewbacca's weight easily. Itcertainly ought to hold Leia and himself. Pulling the cable free of the waist catch, hegauged its length, matching it against the width of the abyss. This should span thedistance with plenty to spare.
　　"What now?" the Princess inquired curiously.
　　Luke didn't reply. Instead, he removed a small but heavy power unit from theutility belt of his armor and tied one end of the cable around it. Making sure thewrapping was secure; he stepped as close to the edge of their uncertain perch as hedared.
　　Whirling the weighted end of the cord in increasing circles, he let it arc acrossthe gorge. It stuck an outcropping of cylindrical conduits on the other side and felldownward. With forced patience he pulled the loose line back in, then recoiled it foranother try.
　　Once again the weighted end orbited in ever greater circles, and again he flung itacross the gap. He could feel the rising heat behind him as he let it go, heat from themelting metal doorway.
　　This time the heavy end looped around an outcropping of pipes above, wrappeditself several times around, and slipped, battery end down, into a crack between them.Leaning backward, he tugged and pulled on the cable, pulling on it at the same time ashe tried to rest all his weight on it. The cable showed no sign of parting.
　　Wrapping the other end of the line several times around his waist and right arm,he reached out and pulled the Princess close to him with the other. The hatch doorbehind them was now a molten white, and liquid metal was running steadily from itsborders.
　　Something warm and pleasant touched Luke's lips, shock at the Princess, hismouth still tingling from the kiss.
　　"Just for luck," she murmured with a slight, almost embarrassed smile as she puther arms around him. "We're going to need it."
　　Gripping the thin cable as tightly as possible with his left hand, Luke put hisright over it, took a deep breath, and jumped out into air. If he had miscalculated thedegree of arc in their swing, they would miss the open hatch and slam into the metalwall to either side or below it. If that happened he doubted he could maintain hisgrip on the rope.
　　The heart-halting transit was accomplished in less time than that thought. In amoment Luke was on the other side, scrambling on his knees to make sure they didn'tfall back into the pit. Leia released her hold on him with admirable timing. Sherolled forward and into the open hatchway, climbing gracefully to her feet as Lukefought to untangle himself from the cable.
　　A distant whine became a loud hen a groan as the hatch door on the other sidegave way. It collapsed inward and tumbled into the depths. If it touched bottom,Luke didn't hear it.
　　A few bolts struck the wall nearby. Luke turned his own weapon on theunsuccessful troopers and returned the fire even as Leia was pulling him into thepassageway behind.
　　Once clear of the door he hit the activating switch. It shut tightly behind them.They would have several minutes, at least, without having to worry about being shotin the back. On the other hand, Luke didn't have the slightest idea where they were,and he found himself wondering what had happened to Han and Chewbacca.
　　Solo and his Wookie partner had succeeded in shaking a portion of their pusuers.But it seemed that whenever they slipped free of several soldiers, more appeared totake their place. No question about it: the word was out on them.
　　Ahead, a series of shield doors was beginning to close.
　　"Hurry, Chewie!" Solo urged.
　　Chewbacca grunted once, breathing like an overused engine. Despite hisimmense strength, the Wookie was not built for long-distance sprinting. Only hisenormous stride had enabled him to keep pace with the lithe Corellian. Chewbaccaleft a couple of hairs in one of the doors, but both slipped inside just before the fivelayers slammed shut.
　　"That ought to hold them for a while," Solo crowed with delight. The Wookiegrowled something at him, but his partner fairly fluoresced with confidence.
　　"Of course I can find the ship from here-Corellians can't get lost." Therecame another growl, slightly accusing this time. Solo shrugged. "Tocneppildoesn't count; he wasn't a Corellian. Besides, I was drunk."
　　Ben Kenobi ducked into the shadows of a narrow passageway, seeming tobecome part of the metal itself as a large cluster of troopers hurried past him.Pausing to make certain they had all passed, he checked the corridor ahead beforestarting down it. But he failed to see the dark silhouette, which eclipsed the light farbehind him.
　　Kenobi had avoided one patrol after another, slowly working his way backtoward the docking bay holding the freighter. Just another two turns and he shouldbe at the hangar. What he would do then would be determined by howinconspicuous his charges had been.
　　That young Luke, the adventurous Corellian and his partner, and the two robotshad been involved in something other than quiet napping he already suspected fromthe amount of activity he had observed while making his way back from the powertrench. Surely all those troops hadn't been out hunting just for him!
　　But something else was troubling them, judging from the reference he hadoverheard concerning a certain important prisoner, now escaped. That discovery hadpuzzled him, until he considered the restless nature of both Luke and Han Solo.Undoubtedly they were involved in some fashion.
　　Ben sensed something directly ahead and slowed cautiously. It had a mostfamiliar feel to it, a half-remembered metal odor he could not quite place.
　　Then the figure stepped out in front of him, blocking his entry to the hangar notfive meters away. The outline and size of the figure completed the momentarypuzzle. It was the maturity of the mind he had sensed that had temporarily confusedhim. His hand moved naturally to the hilt of his deactivated saber.
　　"I have been waiting a long time, Obi-wan Kenobi," Darth Vader intonedsolemnly. "We meet again at last. The circle has been completed." Kenobisensed satisfaction beneath the hideous mask. "The presence I sensed earlier couldonly have been you."
　　Kenobi regarded the great form blocking his retreat and nodded slowly. Hegave the impression of being more curious than impressed. "You still have much tolearn."
　　"You were once my teacher," Vader admitted, "and I learned much from you.But the time of learning has long passed, and I am the master now."
　　The logic that had constituted the missing link in his brilliant pupil remained asabsent as before. There would be no reasoning here, Kenobi knew. Igniting hissaber, he assumed the pose of warrior-ready, a movement accomplished with the easeand elegance of a dancer.
　　Rather roughly, Vader imitated the movement. Several minutes followedwithout motion as the two men remained staring at each other, as if waiting for someproper, as yet unspoken signal.
　　Kenobi blinked once, shook his head, and tried to clear his eyes, which hadbegun to water slightly. Sweat beaded up on his forehead, and his eyelids flutteredagain.
　　"You powers are weak," Vader noted emotionlessly. "Old man, you shouldnever have come back. It will make your end less peaceful than you might havewished."
　　"You sense only a part of the force, Darth," Kenobi murmured with the assuranceof one to whom death is merely another sensation, like sleeping or making love ortouching a candle. "As always, you perceive its reality as little as a utensil perceivesthe taste of food."
　　Executing a move of incredible swiftness for one so old, Kenobi lunged at themassive shape. Vader blocked the stab with equal speed, riposting with acounterslash that Kenobi barely parried. Another parry and Kenobi countered again,using this opportunity to move around the towering Dark Lord.
　　They continued to trade blows, with the old man now backing toward the hangar.Once, his saber and Vader's locked, the interaction of the two energy fields producinga violent sparking and flashing. A low buzzing sound rose from the straining powerunits as each saber sought to override the other.
　　Threepio peeked around the entrance to the docking bay, worriedly counting thenumber of troopers milling around the deserted freighter.
　　"Where could they be? Oh, oh."
　　He ducked back out of sight just as one of the guards glanced in his direction.A second, more cautious appraisal was more rewarding. It revealed Han Solo andChewbacca hugging the wall of another tunnel on the far side of the bay.
　　Solo also was nonplussed at the number of guards. He muttered, "Didn't wejust leave this party?"
　　Chewbacca grunted, and both turned, only to relax and lower their weapons atthe sight of Luke and the Princess.
　　"What kept you?" Solo quipped mirthlessly.
　　"We ran into," Leia explained, panting heavily, "some old friends."
　　Luke was staring at the freighter. "Is the ship all right?"
　　"Seems okay," was Solo's analysis. "It doesn't look like they've removedanything or disturbed her engines. The problem's going to be getting to it."
　　Leia suddenly pointed to one of the opposite tunnels. "Look!"
　　Illuminated by the flare from contacting energy fields, Ben Kenobi and DarthVader were backing toward the bay. The fight attracted the attention of others besidethe Senator. Every one of the guards moved in for a better view of the Olympianconflict.
　　"Now's our chance," Solo observed, starting forward.
　　All seven of the troopers guarding the ship broke and rushed toward thecombatants, going to the Dark Lord's aid. Threepio barely ducked aside as they ranpast him. Turning back into the alcove, he yelled to his companion.
　　"Unplug yourself, Artoo. We're leaving." As soon as the Artoo unit slippedhis sensor arm free of the socket, the two 'droids began to slowly edge out into theopen bay.
　　Kenobi heard the approaching commotion and spared a glance back into thehangar. The squad of troopers bearing down on him was enough to show that he wastrapped.
　　Vader took immediate advantage of the momentary distraction to bring his saberover and down. Kenobi somehow managed to deflect the sweeping blow, at onceparrying and turning a complete circle.
　　"You still have your skill, but your power fades. Prepare to meet the force,Obi-wan."
　　Kenobi gauged the shrinking distance between the oncoming troops and himself,then turned a pitying gaze on Vader. "This is a fight you cannot win, Darth. Yourpower has matured since I taught you, but I too have grown much since our parting.If my blade finds its mark, you will cease to exist. But if you cut me down, I willonly become more powerful. Heed my words."
　　"Your philosophies no longer confuse me, old man," Vader growledcontemptuously. "I am the master now."
　　Once again he lunged forward, feinting, and then slashing in a deadly downwardarc with the saber. It stuck home, cutting the old man cleanly in half. There was abrief flash as Kenobi's cloak fluttered to the deck in two neat sections.
　　But Ben Kenobi was not in it. Wary of some tricks, Vader poked at the emptycloak sections with the saber. There was no sign of the old man. He had vanishedas though he had ever existed.
　　The guards slowed their approach and joined Vader in examining the place whereKenobi had stood seconds before. Several of them muttered, and even the awesomepresence of the Sith Lord couldn't keep a few of them from feeling a little afraid.
　　Once the guards had turned and dashed for the far tunnels, Solo and the othersstarted for the starship shifted direction and was moving toward the guards.
　　"Ben!" he screamed, firing wildly toward the troops. Solo cursed, but turned tofire in support of Luke.
　　One of the energy bolts struck the safety release on the tunnel blast door. Theemergency hold broken, the heavy door fairly exploded downward. Both the guardsand Vader leaped clear-the guards into the bay and Vader backward, to the oppositeside of the door.
　　Solo had turned and started for the entrance to the ship, but he paused as he sawLuke running toward the guards.
　　"It's too late!" Leia yelled at him. "It's over."
　　A familiar, yet different voice rang in his ears-Ben's voice. "Luke´listen!"was all it said.
　　Bewildered, Luke turned to hunt for the source of that admonition. He onlysaw Leia beckoning to him as she followed Artoo and Threepio up the ramp.
　　"Come on! There's no time."
　　Hesitating, his mind still on that imagined voice (or was it imagined?), aconfused Luke took aim and felled several soldiers before he, too, whirled andretreated into the freighter.

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
    

A New Hope
XI

　　Dazed, Luke staggered toward the front of the ship. He barely noticed the sound ofenergy bolts, too weak to penetrate the ship's deflectors, exploding harmlessly outside.His own safety was currently of little concern to him. With misty eyes he stared asChewbacca and Solo adjusted controls.
　　"I hope that old man managed to knock out that tractor beam," the Corellian wassaying, "or this is going to be a very short ride."
　　Ignoring him, Luke returned to the hold area and slumped into a seat, his headfalling into his hands. Leia Organa regarded him quietly for a while, then removedher cloak. Moving to him, she placed it gently around his shoulders.
　　"There wasn't anything you could have done," she whispered comfortingly. "Itwas all over in an instant."
　　"I can't believe he's gone," came Luke's reply, his voice a ghost of a whisper."I can't"
　　Solo shifted a lever, staring nervously ahead. But the massive bay door wasconstructed to respond to the approach of any vessel. The safety feature now servedto facilitate their escape as the freighter slipped quickly past the still-opening door andout into free space.
　　"Nothing," Solo sighed, studying several readouts with profound satisfaction."Not so much as an erg of come-hither. He did it, all right."
　　Chewbacca rumbled something, and the pilot's attention shifted to another seriesof gauges. "Right, Chewie. I forget, for a moment, that there are other ways ofpersuading us to return." His teeth flashed in a grin of determination. "But theonly way they'll get us back in that traveling tomb is in pieces. Take over."
　　Whirling, he ran out of the cockpit. "Come with me, kid," he shouted at Lukeas he entered the hold. "We're not out of this yet."
　　Luke didn't respond, didn't move, and Leia turned an angry face to Solo."Leave him alone. Can't you see what the old man meant to him?"
　　An explosion jarred the ship, nearly tumbling Solo to the deck.
　　"So what? The old man gave himself to give us a chance to get away. Youwant to waste that, Luke? You want Kenobi to have wasted himself?"
　　Luke's head came up and he stared with vacant eyes at the Corellian. No, notquite vacant´There was something too old and unpleasant shining blindly in the backof them. Without a word, he threw off the cloak and joined Solo.
　　Giving him a reassuring smile, Solo gestured down a narrow accessway. Lukelooked in the indicted direction, smiled grimly, and rushed down it as Solo starteddown the opposing passage.
　　Luke found himself in a large rotating bubble protruding from the side of theship. A long, wicked looking tube whose purpose was instantly apparent projectedfrom the apex of the transparent hemisphere. Luke settled himself into the seat andcommenced a rapid study of the controls. Activator here, firing grip here´He hadfired such weapons a thousand times before-in his dreams.
　　Forward, Chewbacca and Leia were searching the speckled pit outside for theattacking fighters represented by firepricks on several screens. Chewbacca suddenlygrowled throatily and pulled back on several controls as Leia let out a yelp.
　　"Here they come."
　　The starfield wheeled around Luke as an Imperial Tie fighter raced toward himand then swung overhead to vanish into the distance. Within the tiny cockpit itspilot frowned as the supposedly battered freighter darted out of range. Adjusting hisown controls, he swung up and over in a high arc intended to take him on a freshintercept course with the escaping ship.
　　Solo fired at another fighter, and its pilot nearly slammed his engine through itsmountings as he fought to avoid the powerful energy bolts. As he did so, his hurriedmaneuver brought him under and around to the other side of the freighter. Even ashe was lowering the glare reflector over his eyes, Luke opened up on the racingfighter.
　　Chewbacca was alternating his attention between the instruments and thetracking screens, while Leia strained to separate distant stars from nearby assassins.
　　Two fighters dove simultaneously on the twisting, spiraling freighter, trying toline their weapons on the unexpectedly flexible craft. Solo fired at the descendingglobes, and Luke followed with his own weapon a second later. Both fired on thestarship and then shot past.
　　"They're coming in too fast," Luke yelled into his comlink.
　　Another enemy bolt stuck the freighter forward and was barely aside by itsdeflectors. The cockpit shuddered violently, and gauges whined in protest at thequantity of energy they were being asked to monitor and compensate for.
　　Chewbacca muttered something to Leia, and she murmured a soft reply as if shealmost understood.
　　Another fighter unloosed a barrage on the freighter, only this time the boltpierced an overloaded screen and actually struck the side of the ship. Thoughpartially deflected, it still carried enough power to blow out a large control panel inthe main passageway, sending a rain of sparks and smoke in all directions. ArtooDetoo started stolidly toward the miniature inferno as the ship lurched crazily,throwing the less stable Threepio into a cabinet full of component chips.
　　A warning light began to wink for attention in the cockpit. Chewbaccamuttered to Leia, who stared at him worriedly and wished for the gift of Wookie-gab.
　　Then a fighter floated down on the damaged freighter, right into Luke's sights.His mouth moving silently, Luke fired at it. The incredibly agile little vessel dartedout of his range, but as it passed beneath them Solo picked it up instantly, andcommenced a steady following fire. Without warning the fighter erupted in anincredible flash of multicolored light, throwing a billion bits of superheated metal toevery section of the cosmos.
　　Solo whirled and gave Luke a victory wave, which the younger man gleefullyreturned. Then they turned back to their weapons as yet another fighter stormedover the freighter's hull, firing at its transmitter dish.
　　In the middle of the main passageway, angry flames raged around a stubbycylindrical shape. A fine white powdery spray issued from Artoo Detoo's head.Wherever it touched, the fire retreated sharply.
　　Luke tried to relax, to become part of the weapon. Almost without being awareof it, he was firing at a retreating Imperial. When he blinked, it was to see theflaming fragments of the enemy craft forming a perfect ball of light outside the turret.It was his turn to spin and flash the Corellian a grin of triumph.
　　In the cockpit, Leia paid close attention to scattered readouts as well as searchingthe sky for additional ships. She directed her voice toward an open mike.
　　"There are still two more of them out there. Looks like we've lost the lateralmonitors and the starboard deflector shield."
　　"Don't worry," Solo told her, with as much hope as confidence, "she'll holdtogether." He gave the walls a pleading stare. "You hear me, ship?" holdtogether! Chewie, try to keep them on our port side. If we-"
　　He was forced to break off as a Tie fighter seemed to materialize out of nowhere,energy bolts reaching out from it toward him. Its companion craft came up on thefreighter's other side and Luke found himself firing steadily at it, ignoring theimmensely powerful energy it threw at him. At the last possible instant before itpassed out of range, he swung the weapon's nozzle minutely, his finger tighteningconvulsively on the fire control. The Imperial fighter turned into a rapidlyexpanding cloud of phosphorescing dust. The other fighter apparently consideredthe shrunken odds, turned, and retreated at top speed.
　　"We've made it!" Leia shouted, turning to give the startled Wookie anunexpected hug. He growled at her-very softly.
　　Darth Vader strode into the control room where Governor Tarkin stood staring ata huge, brilliantly lit screen. It displayed a sea of stars, but it was not the spectacularview, which absorbed the Governor's thoughts at the moment. He barely glancedaround as Vader entered.
　　"Are they away?" the Dark Lord demanded.
　　"They've just completed the jump to hyperspace. No doubt they are at this verymoment congratulating themselves at their daring and success." Now Tarkin turnedto face Vader, a hint of warning in his tone.
　　"I'm taking an awful chance, on your insistence, Vader. This had better work.Are you certain the homing beacon is secure aboard their ship?"
　　Vader exuded confidence beneath the reflective black mask. "There is nothingto fear. This will be a day long remembered. It already has been witness to thefinal extinction of the Jedi. Soon it will see the end of the Alliance and therebellion."
　　Solo switched places with Chewbacca, the Wookie grateful for the opportunity torelinquish the controls. As the Corellian moved aft to check the extent of thedamage, a determined-looking Leia passed him in the corridor.
　　"What do you think, sweetheart?" Solo inquired, well pleased with himself."Not a bad bit of rescuing. You know, sometimes I amaze even myself."
　　"That doesn't sound too hard," she admitted readily. "The important thing isnot my safety, but the fact that the information in the R-2 'droid is still intact."
　　"What's that 'droid carrying that's so important, anyway?"
　　Leia considered the blazing starfield forward. "Complete technical schematicsof the battle station. I only hope that when the data is analyzed, a weakness can befound. Until then, until the station itself is destroyed, we must go on. This warisn't over yet."
　　"It is for me," objected the pilot. "I'm not on this mission for your revolution.Economics interest me, not politics. There's business to be done under anygovernment. And I'm not doing it for you, Princess. I expect to be well paid forrisking my ship and my hide."
　　"You needn't worry about your reward," she assured him sadly, turning to leave."If money is what you love´that's what you will receive."
　　On leaving the cockpit she saw Luke coming forward, and she spoke softly tohim in passing. "Your friend is indeed a mercenary. I wonder if he really caresabout anything-or anybody."
　　Luke stared after her until she disappeared into the main hold area, thenwhispered, "I do´I care." Then he moved into the cockpit and sat in the seatChewbacca had just vacated.
　　"What do you think of her, Han?"
　　Solo didn't hesitate. "I try not to."
　　Luke probably hadn't intended his response to be audible, but Solo overheard hismurmur of "Good" none the less.
　　"Still," Solo ventured thoughtfully, "she's got a lot of spirit to go with her sass.I don't know, do you think it's possible for a Princess and a guy like me´?"
　　"No," Luke cut him off sharply. He turned and looked away.
　　Solo smiled at the younger man's jealousy, uncertain in his own mind whether hehad added the comment to bait his na?ve friend-or because it was the truth.
　　Yavin was not a habitable world. The huge gas giant was patterned with pastelhigh-altitude cloud formations. Here and there the softly lambent atmosphere wasmolded by cyclonic storms composed of six-hundred-kilometer-per-hour winds whichboiled rolling gases up form the Yavinesque troposphere. It was a world of lingeringbeauty and quick death for any who might try to penetrate to its comparatively smallcore of frozen liquids.
　　Several of the giant planet's numerous moons, however, were planet-sizedthemselves, and of these, three could support humanoid life. Particularly invitingwas the satellite designated by the system's discoverers as number four. It shone likean emerald in Yavin's necklace of moons, rich with plant and animal life. But it wasnot listed among those worlds supporting human settlement. Yavin was located toofar from settled regions of the galaxy.
　　Perhaps the latter reason, or both, or a combination of causes still unknown hadbeen responsible for whatever race had once risen from satellite four's jungles, only todisappear quietly long before the first human explorer set foot on the tiny world.Little was known of them save that they left a number of impressive monuments, andthat they were one of the many races which had aspired to the stars only to have theirdesperate reach fall short.
　　Now all that remained were the mounds and foliage-clad clumps formed byjungle-covered buildings. But thought they had sunk back into the dust, theirartifacts and their world continued to serve an important purpose.
　　Strange cries and barely perceptible moans sounded from every tree and copse;hoots and growls and strange mutterings issued from creatures content to remainconcealed in the dense undergrowth. Whenever dawn broke over moon the fourth,heralding one of its long days, an especially feral chorus of shrieks and weirdlymodulated screams would resound through the thick mist.
　　Even stranger sounds surged continually from one particular place. Here laythe most impressive of those edifices, which a vanished race had raised toward theheavens. It was a temple, a roughly pyramidal structure so colossal that it seemedimpossible it could have been built without the aid of modern gravitonic constructiontechniques. Yet all evidence pointed only to simple machines, hand technology-and, perhaps, devices alien and long lost.
　　While the science of this moon's inhabitants had led them to a dead end as far asoffworld travel was concerned, they had produced several discoveries which in certainways surpassed similar Imperial accomplishments-one of which involved a stillunexplained method of cutting and transporting gargantuan blocks of stone from thecrust of the moon.
　　From these monstrous blocks of solid rock, the massive temple had beenconstructed. The jungle had scaled even its soaring crest, clothing it in rich greenand brown. Only near its base, in the temple front, did the jungle slide awaycompletely, to reveal a long, dark entrance cut by its builders and enlarged to suit theneeds of the structure's present occupants.
　　A tiny machine, its smooth metal sides and silvery hue incongruous amidst theall-pervasive green, appeared in the forest. It hummed like a fat, swollen beetle as itconveyed its cluster of passengers toward the open temple base. Crossing aconsiderable clearing, it was soon swallowed up by the dark maw in the front of themassive structure, leaving the jungle once more in the paws and claws of invisiblesquallers and screechers.
　　The original builders would never have recognized the interior of their temple.Seamed metal had replaced rock, and poured paneling did service for chamberdivision in place of wood. Nor would they have been able to see the buried layersexcavated into the rock below, layers which contained hangar upon hanger linked bypowerful elevators.
　　A landspeeder came to a gradual stop within the temple, whose first level wasthe uppermost of the ship-filled hangars. Its engine died obediently as the vehiclesettled to the ground. A noisy cluster of humans waiting nearby ceased theirconversation and rushed toward the craft.
　　Fortunately Leia Organa quickly emerged from the speeder, or the man whoreached it first might have pulled her bodily from it, so great was his delight at thesight of her. He settled for giving her a smothering hug as his companion calledtheir own greetings.
　　"You're safe! We'd feared you'd been killed." Abruptly he composed himself,stepped away from her, and executed a formal bow. "When we heard aboutAlderaan, we were afraid that you were´lost along with the rest of the population."
　　"All that is past history, Commander Willard," she said. "We have a future tolive for. Alderaan and its people are gone." Her voice turned bitter cold,frightening in so delicate-looking a person. "We must see that such does not happenagain.
　　"We don't have time for our sorrows, Commander," she continued briskly."The battle station has surely tracked us here."
　　Solo started to protest, but she shut him up with logic and a stern look.
　　"That's the only explanation for the ease of our escape. They sent only four Tiefighters after us. They could as easily have launched a hundred."
　　Solo had no reply for that, but continued to fume silently. Then Leia gesturedat Artoo Detoo.
　　"You must use the information locked in this R-2 'droid to form a plan of attack.It's our only hope. The station itself is more powerful than anyone suspected." Hervoice dropped. "If the data does not yield a weakness, there will be no stoppingthem."
　　Luke was then treated to a sight unique in his experience, unique in most men's.Several rebel technicians walked up to Artoo Detoo, positioned themselves aroundhim, and gently hoisted him in their arms. This was the first, and probably the lasttime he would ever see a robot being carried respectfully by men.
　　Theoretically, no weapon could penetrate the exceptionally dense stone of theancient temple, but Luke had seen the shattered remains of Alderaan and knew thatfor those in the incredible battle station the entire moon would present simply anotherabstract problem in mass-energy conversion.
　　Little Artoo Detoo rested comfortably in a place of honor, his body radiatingcomputer and data-bank hookups like a metal hairdo. On an array of screens andreadouts nearby the technical information stored on the submicroscopic record tapewithin the robot's brain was being played out. Hours of it-diagrams, charts,statistics.
　　First the rush of materials was slowed and digested by more sophisticatedcomputer minds. Then the most critical information was turned over to humananalysts for detailed evaluation.
　　All the while See Threepio stood close to Artoo, marveling at how so muchcomplex data could be stored in the mind of so simple a 'droid.
　　The central briefing room was located deep within the bowels of the temple.The long, low-ceiling auditorium was dominated by a raised dais and huge electronicdisplay screen at its far end. Pilots, navigators, and a sprinkling of Artoo units filledthe seats. Impatient, and feeling very out of place, Han Solo and Chewbacca stoodas far away from the stage, with its assemblage of officers and Senators, as possible.Solo scanned the crowd, searching for Luke. Despite some common sense entreaties,the crazy kid had gone and joined the regular pilots. He didn't see Luke, but herecognized the Princess as she talked somberly with some bemedaled oldster.
　　When a tall, dignified gentleman with too many deaths on his soul moved tostand by the far side of the screen, Solo turned his attention to him, as did everyoneelse in the room. As soon as an expectant silence had gripped the crowd, GeneralJan Dodonna adjusted the tiny mike on his chest and indicated the small group seatedclose to him.
　　"You all know these people," he intoned with quiet power. "They are theSenators and Generals whose worlds have given us support, whether open or covert.They have come to be with us in what may well prove to be the decisive moment."He let his gaze touch many in the crowd, and none who were so favored remainedunmoved.
　　"The Imperial battle station you know all have heard of is approaching from thefar side of Yavin and its sun. That gives us a little extra time, but it must bestopped-once and for all-before it can reach this moon, before it can bring itsweaponry to bear on us as it did on Alderaan." A murmur ran through the crowd atthe mention of that world, so callously obliterated.
　　"The station," Dodonna went on, "is heavily shielded and mounts morefirepower than half the Imperial fleet. But its defenses were designed to fend offlarge-scale, capital ship assaults. A small, one- or two-man fighter should be able toslip through its defensive screens."
　　A slim, supple man who resembled an older version of Han Solo rose.Dodonna acknowledged his presence. "What is it, Red Leader?"
　　The man gestured toward the display screen, which showed a computer portraitof the battle station. "Pardon me for asking, sir, but what good are our snub fightersgoing to be against that?"
　　Dodonna considered. "Well, the Empire doesn't think a one-man fighter is anythreat to anything except another small ship, like a Tie fighter, or they would haveprovided tighter screens. Apparently they're convinced that their defensiveweaponry can fend off any light attacks.
　　"But an analysis of the plans provided by Princess Leia has revealed what wethink is a weakness in the station's design. A big ship couldn't get near it, but an X-or Y-wing fighter might.
　　"It's a small thermal exhaust port. Its size belies its importance, as it appears tobe an unshielded shaft that runs directly into the main reactor system powering thestation. Since this serves as an emergency outlet for waste heat in the event ofreactor overproduction, its usefulness would be eliminated by particle shielding. Adirect hit would initiate a chain reaction that will destroy the station."
　　Mutterings of disbelief ran through the room. The more experienced the pilot,the greater his expressed disbelief.
　　"I didn't say your approach would be easy," Dodonna admonished them. Hegestured at the screen. "You must maneuver straight in down this shaft, level off inthe trench, and skim the surface to-this point. The target is only two meters across.It will take a precise hit at exactly ninety degree to reach the reactor systematization.And only a direct hit will start the complete reaction.
　　"I said the port wasn't particle-shielded. However, it is completely ray-shielded.That means no energy beams. You'll have to use proton torpedoes."
　　A few of the pilots laughed humorlessly. One of them was a teenaged fighterjockey seated next to Luke who bore the unlikely name of Wedge Antilles. ArtooDetoo was there also, seated next to another Artoo unit who emitted a long whistle ofhopelessness.
　　"A two-meter target at maximum speed-with a torpedo, yet," Antilles snorted."That's impossible even for the computer."
　　"But it's not impossible," protested Luke. "I used to bulls-eye womp-rats in myT-17 back home. They're not much bigger than two meters."
　　"Is that so?" the rakishly uniformed youth noted derisively. "Tell me, when youwere going after your particular varmint, were there a thousand other, what did youcall it, 'womp-rats' armed with power rifles firing up at you?" He shook his headsadly.
　　"With all that firepower on the station directed at us, this will take a little morethan barnyard marksmanship, believe me."
　　As if to confirm Antilles' pessimism, Dodonna indicated a string of lights on theever-changing schematic. "Take special not of these emplacements. There's aheavy concentration of firepower on the latitudinal axes, was well as several densecircumpolar clusters.
　　"Also, their field generators will probably create a lot of distortion, especially inand around the trench. I figure that maneuverability in that sector will be less thanpoint three." This produced more murmurs and a few groans from the assembly.
　　"Remember," the General went on, "you must achieve a direct hit. Yellowsquadron will cover for Red on the first run. Green will cover Blue on the second.Any questions?"
　　a muted buzz filled the room. One man stood, lean and handsome-too muchso, it seemed, to be ready to throw away his life for something as abstract as freedom.
　　"What if both runs fail, What happens after that?"
　　Dodonna smiled tightly. "There won't be any 'after that.' " The man noddedslowly, understandingly, and sat down. "Anyone else?" Silence now, pregnantwith expectation.
　　"Then man your ships, and may the force be with you."
　　Like oil draining from shallow pot, the seated ranks of men, women, andmachines rose and flowed toward the exits.
　　Elevators hummed busily, lifting more and more deadly shapes from burieddepths to the staging area in the primary temple hangar as Luke, Threepio, and ArtooDetoo walked toward the hangar entrance.
　　Neither the bustling flight crews, nor the pilots performing final checkouts, northe massive sparks thrown off as power couplings were disconnected captured Luke'sattention at the moment. Instead, it was held by the activity of two far more familiarfigures.
　　Solo and Chewbacca were loading a pile of small strongboxes onto an armoredlandspeeder. They were completely absorbed with this activity, ignoring thepreparations going all around them.
　　Solo glanced up briefly as Luke and the robots approached, then returned to hisloading. Luke simply watched sadly, conflicting emotions careening confusedly offone another inside him. Solo was cocky, reckless, intolerant, and smug. He wasalso brave to a fault, instructive, and unfailingly cheery. The combination made fora confusing friend-but a friend nonetheless.
　　"You got your reward," Luke finally observed, indicating the boxes. Solonodded once. "And you're leaving, then?"
　　"That's right, kid. I've got some old debts to pay off, and even if I didn't, Idon't think I'd be fool enough to stick around here." He eyed Luke appraisingly."You're pretty good in a scrap, kid. Why don't you come with us? I could useyou."
　　The mercenary gleam in Solo's eyes only made Luke mad. "Why don't youlook around you and see something besides yourself for a change? You know what'sgoing to happen here, what they're up against. They could use a good pilot. Butyou're turning your back on them."
　　Solo didn't appear upset at Luke's tirade. "What good's a reward if you're notaround to spend it? Attacking that battle station isn't my idea of courage-more likesuicide."
　　"Yeah´Take care of yourself, Han," Luke said quietly, turning to leave. "But Iguess that's what you're best at, isn't it?" He started back into the hangar depths,flanked by the two 'droids.
　　Solo stared after him, hesitated, then called, "Hey, Luke´may the force be withyou." Luke looked back to see Solo wink at him. He waved-sort of. Then hewas swallowed up by moving mechanics and machinery.
　　Solo returned to his work, lifting a box-and stopped, to see Chewbacca gazingfixedly at him.
　　"What are you staring at, gruesome? I know what I'm doing. Get back towork!"
　　Slowly, still eyeing his partner, the Wookie returned to the task of loading theheavy crates.
　　Sorrowful thoughts of Solo vanished when Luke saw the petite, slim figurestanding by his ship-the ship he had been granted.
　　"Are you sure this is what you want?" Princess Leia asked him. "It could be adeadly reward."
　　Luke's eyes were filled with the sleek, venomous metal shape. "More thananything."
　　"Then what's wrong?"
　　Luke looked back at her and shrugged. "It's Han. I thought he'd change hismind. I thought he'd join us."
　　"A man must follow his own path," she told him, sounding now like a Senator."No one can choose it for him. Han Solo's priorities differ from ours. I wish itwere otherwise, but I can't find it in my heart to condemn him." She stood ontiptoes, gave him a quick, almost embarrassed kiss, and turned to go. "May the forcebe with you."
　　"I only wish," Luke murmured to himself as he started back to his ship, "Benwere here."
　　So intent was he on thoughts of Kenobi, the Princess, and Han that he didn'tnotice the larger figure which tightly locked on to his arm. He turned, his initialanger gone instantly in astonishment as he recognized the figure.
　　"Luke!" the slightly older man exclaimed. "I don't believe it! How'd you gethere? Are you going out with us?"
　　"Biggs!" Luke embraced his friend warmly. "Of course I'll be up there withyou." His smile faded slightly. "I haven't got a choice, anymore." Then hebrightened again. "Listen, have I got some stories to tell you´"
　　The steady whooping and laughing the two made was in marked contrast to thesolemnity with which the other men and women in the hangar went about theirbusiness. The commotion attracted the attention of an older, war-worn man knownto the younger pilot only as Blue Leader.
　　His face wrinkled with curiosity as he approached the two younger men. It wasa face scorched by the same fire that flickered in his eyes, a blaze kindled not byrevolutionary fervor but by years of living through and witnessing far too muchinjustice. Behind that fatherly visage a raging demon fought to escape. Soon, verysoon, he would be free to let it loose.
　　Now he was interested in these two young men, who in a few hours were likelyto be particles of frozen meat floating about Yavin. One of them he recognized.
　　"Aren't you Luke Skywalker? Have you been checked out on the Incom T-65?"
　　"Sir," Biggs put in before his friend could reply, "Luke's the best bush pilot inthe outer-rim territories."
　　The older man patted Luke reassuringly on the back as they studied his waitingship. "Something to be proud of. I've got over a thousand hours in an Incomskyhopper myself." He paused a moment before going on.
　　"I met your father once when I was just a boy, Luke. He was a great pilot.You'll do all right out there. If you've got half your father's skill, you'll do a damnsight better than all right."
　　"Thank you, sir. I'll try."
　　"There's no much difference control-wise between an X-wing T-65," BlueLeader went on, "and a skyhopper." His smile turned ferocious. "Except thepayload's of somewhat different nature."
　　He left them and hurried toward his own ship. Luke had a hundred questions toask him, and no time for even one.
　　"I've got to get aboard my own boat, Luke. Listen, you'll tell me your storieswhen we come back. All right?"
　　"All right. I told you I'd make it here someday, Biggs."
　　"You did." His friend was moving toward a cluster of waiting fighter, adjustinghis flight suit. "It's going to be like old time, Luke. We're a couple of shootingstars that can't be stopped!"
　　Luke laughed. They used to reassure themselves with that cry when theypiloted starships of sandhills and dead logs behind the flaking, pitted buildings ofAnchorhead´years and years ago.
　　Once more Luke turned toward his ship, admiring its deadly lines. DespiteBlue Leader's assurances, he had to admit that it didn't look much like an Incomskyhopper. Artoo Detoo was being snuggled into the R-2 socket behind the fightercockpit. A forlorn metal figure stood below, watching the operation and shufflingnervously about.
　　"Hold on tight," See Threepio was cautioning the smaller robot. "You've got tocome back. If you don't come back, who am I going to have to yell at?" ForThreepio, that query amounted to an overwhelming outburst of emotion.
　　Artoo beeped confidently down at his friend, however, as Luke mounted thecockpit entry. Farther down the hangar he saw Blue Leader already set in hisacceleration chair and signaling to his ground crew. Another roar was added to themonstrous din filling the hangar area as ship after ship activated its engines. In thatenclosed rectangle of temple the steady thunder was overpowering.
　　Slipping into the cockpit seat, Luke studied the various controls as groundattendants began wiring him via cords and umbilicals into the ship. His confidenceincreased steadily. The instrumentation was necessarily simplified and, as BlueLeader had indicated, much like his old skyhopper.
　　Something patted his helmet, and he glanced left to see the crew chief leaningclose. He had to shout to be heard above the deafening howl of multiple engines."That R-2 unit of yours seems a little beat-up. Do you want a new one?"
　　Luke glanced briefly back at the secured 'droid before replying. Artoo Detoolooked like a permanent piece of the fighter.
　　"Not on your life. That 'droid and I have been through a lot together. Allsecure, Artoo?" The 'droid replied with a reassuring beep.
　　As the ground chief jumped clear, Luke commenced the final checkout of allinstruments. It slowly occurred to him what he and the others were about to attempt.Not that his personal feelings could override his decision to join them. He was nolonger an individual, functioning solely to satisfy his personal needs. Somethingnow bound him to every other man and woman in this hangar.
　　All around him, scattered scenes of good-bye were taking place-some serious,some kidding, all with the true emotion of the moment masked by efficiency. Luketurned away from where one pilot left a mechanic, possibly a sister or wife, or just afriend, with a sharp, passionate kiss.
　　He wondered how many of them had their own little debts to settle with theEmpire. Something crackled in his helmet. In response, he touched a small level.The ship began to roll forward, slowly but with increasing speed, toward the gapingmouth of the temple.

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
    

A New Hope
XII

　　Leia Organa sat silently before the huge display screen on which Yavin and its moonswere displayed. A large red dot moved steadily toward the fourth of those satellites.Dodonna and several other field commanders of the Alliance stood behind her, theireyes also intent on the screen. Tiny green flecks began to appear around the fourthmoon, to coalesce into the small clouds like hovering emerald gnats.Dodonna put a hand on her shoulder. It was comforting. "The red represents theprogress of the Imperial battle station as it moves deeper into Yavin's system." 
　　"Our ships are all away," a Commander behind him declared.
　　A single man stood alone in the cylindrical hold, secured to the top of a rapier-thin tower. Staring through fixed-mount electrobinoculars, he was the sole visiblerepresentative of the vast technology buried in the green purgatory below.
　　Muted cries, moans, and primeval gurglings drifted up to him from the highesttreetops. Some were frightening, some less so, but none were as indicative of powerheld in check as the four silvery starships which burst into view above the observer.Keeping a tight formation, they exploded through humid air to vanish in seconds intothe morning cloud cover far above. Sound-shadows rattled the trees moments later,in a forlorn attempt to catch up to the engines which had produced them.
　　Slowly assuming attack formations combining X- and Y-wing ships, the variousfighters began to move outward from the moon, out past the oceanic atmosphere ofgiant Yavin, out to meet the technologic executioner.
　　The man who had observed the by-play between Biggs and Luke now loweredhis glare visor and adjusted his half-automatic, half-manual gunsights as he checkedthe ships to either side of him.
　　"Blue boys," he addressed his intership pickup, "this is Blue Leader. Adjustyour selectors and check in. Approaching target at one point three´"
　　Ahead, the bright sphere of what looked like on of Yavin's moons but wasn'tbegan to glow with increasing brightness. It shone with an eerie metallic glowutterly unlike that of any natural satellite. As he watched the giant battle stationmake its way around the rim of Yavin, Blue Leader's thoughts traveled back over theyears. Over the uncountable injustices, the innocents taken away for interrogationand never heard from again-the whole multitude of evils incurred by an increasinglycorrupt and indifferent Imperial government. All those terrors and agonies wereconcentrated, magnified, represented by the single bloated feat of engineering theywere approaching now.
　　"This is it, boys," he said to the mike. "Blue Two, you're too far out. Close itup, Wedge."
　　The young pilot Luke had encountered in the temple briefing room glanced tostarboard, then back to his instruments. He executed a slight adjustment, frowning."Sorry, boss. My ranger seems to be a few points off. I'll have to go on manual."
　　"Check, Blue Two. Watch yourself. All ships, stand by to lock S-foils inattack mode."
　　One after another, from Luke and Biggs, Wedge and the other members of Blueassault squadron, the replies came back. "Standing by´"
　　"Execute," Blue Leader commanded, when John D. and Piggy had indicated theywere in readiness.
　　The double wings on the X-wing fighters split apart, like narrow seeds. Eachfighter now displayed four wings, its wing-mounted armament and quadruple enginesnow deployed for maximum firepower and maneuverability.
　　Ahead, they Imperial station continued to grow. Surface features becamevisible as each pilot recognized docking bays, broadcast antennae, and other man-made mountains and canyons.
　　As he neared that threatening black sphere for the second time, Luke's breathinggrew faster. Automatic life-support machinery detected the respiratory shift andcompensated properly.
　　Something began to buffet his ship, almost as if he were back in his skyhopperagain, wrestling with the unpredictable winds of Tatooine. He experienced a badmoment of uncertainty until the calming voice of Blue Leader sounded in his ears.
　　"We're passing through their outer shields. Hold tight. Lock down freeze-floating controls and switch your own deflectors on, double front."
　　The shaking and buffeting continued, worsened. Not knowing how tocompensate, Luke did exactly what he should have: remained in control and followedorders. Then the turbulence was gone and the deathly cold peacefulness of spacehad returned.
　　"That's it, we're through," Blue Leader told them quietly. "Keep all channelssilent until we're on top of them. It doesn't look like they're expecting muchresistance."
　　Though half the great station remained in shadow, they were now near enoughfor Luke to be able to discern individual lights on its surface. A ship that could showphases matching a moon´once again he marveled at the misplaced ingenuity andeffort which had gone into its construction. Thousands of lights scattered across itscurving expanse gave it the appearance of a floating city.
　　Some of Luke's comrades, since this was their first sight of the station, wereeven more impressed. "Look at the size of that thing!" Wedge Antilles gasped overhis open pickup.
　　"Cut the chatter, Blue Two," Blue Leader ordered. "Accelerate to attackvelocity."
　　Grim determination showed in Luke's expression as he flipped several switchesabove his head and began adjusting his computer target readout. Artoo Detooreexamined the nearing station and thought untranslatable electronic thoughts.
　　Blue Leader compared the station with the location of their proposed target area."Red Leader," he called toward the pickup, "this is Blue Leader. We're in position;you can go right in. The exhaust shaft is farther to the north. We'll keep 'em busydown here."
　　Red Leader was the physical opposite of Luke's squadron commander. Heresembled the popular notion of a credit accountant-short, slim, shy of face. Hisskills and dedication, however, easily matched those of his counterpart and old friend.
　　"We're starting for the target shaft now, Dutch. Stand by to take over ifanything happens."
　　"Check, Red Leader," came the other's reply. "We're going to cross theirequatorial axis and try to draw their main fire. May the force be with you."
　　From the approaching swarm, two squads of fighters broke clear. The X-wingships dove directly for the bulge of the station, far below, while the Y-ships curveddown and northward over its surface.
　　Within the station, alarm sirens began a mournful, clangorous wail as slow-to-react personnel realized that the impregnable fortress was actually under organizedattack. Admiral Motti and his tacticians had expected the rebel's resistance to becentered around a massive defense of the moon itself. They were completelyunprepared for an offensive response consisting of dozens of tiny snub ships.
　　Imperial efficiency was in the process of compensating for this strategicoversight. Soldiers scrambled to man enormous defensive-weapons emplacements.Servodrivers thrummed as powerful motors aligned the huge devices for firing.Soon a web of annihilation began to develop the station as energy weapons, electricalbolts, and explosive solids ripped out at the oncoming rebel craft.
　　"This is Blue Five," Luke announced to his mike as he nose dived his ship in theradical attempt to confuse any electronic predictors below. The gray surface of thebattle station streaked past his ports. "I'm going in."
　　"I'm right behind you, Blue Five," a voice recognizable as Biggs's sounded inhis ears.
　　The target in Luke's sights was as stable as that of the Imperial defenders wasevasive. Bolts flew from the tiny vessel's weapons. One started a huge fire on thedim surface below, which would burn until the crew of the station could shut off theflow of air to the damaged section.
　　Luke's glee turned to terror as he realized he couldn't swerve his craft in time toavoid passing through the fireball of unknown composition. "Pull out, Luke, pullout!" Biggs was screaming at him.
　　But despite commands to shift course, the automatic pressors wouldn't allow thenecessary centrifugal force. His father plunged into the expanding balls ofsuperheated gases.
　　Then he was through and clear, on the other side. A rapid check of his controlsenabled him to relax. Passage through the intense heat had been insufficient todamage anything vital-though all four wings bore streaks of black, carbonizedtestimony to the nearness of his escape.
　　Hell-flowers bloomed outside his ship as he swung it up and around in a sharpcurve. "You all right, Luke?" came Biggs's concerned query.
　　"I got a little toasted, but I'm okay."
　　A different, stern voice sounded. "Blue Five," warned the squadron leader,"you'd better give yourself more lead time or you're going to destroy yourself as wellas the Imperial construction."
　　"Yes, sir. I've got the hang of it now. Like you said, it's not exactly likeflying a skyhopper."
　　Energy bolts and sun-bright beams continued to create a chromatic maze in thespace above the station as the rebel fighters crisscrossed back and forth over itssurface, firing at whatever looked like a decent target. Two of the tiny craftconcentrated on a power terminal. It blew up, throwing lightning-sized electric arcsfrom the station's innards.
　　Inside, troopers, mechanicals, and equipment were blown in all directions bysubsidiary explosions as the effects of the blast traveled back down various conduitsand cables. Where the explosion had hulled the station, escaping atmosphere suckedhelpless soldiers and 'droids out into a bottomless black tomb.
　　Moving from position to position, a figure of dark calm amid the chaos, wasDarth Vader. A harried Commander rushed up to him and reported breathlessly.
　　"Lord Vader, we count at least thirty of them, of two types. They are so smalland quick the fixed guns cannot follow them accurately. They continuously evadethe predictors."
　　"Get all Tie crews to their fighters. We'll have to go out after them and destroythem ship by ship."
　　Within numerous hangars red lights began flashing and an insistent alarm startedto ring. Ground crews worked frantically to ready ships as flight-suited Imperialpilots grabbed for helmets and packs.
　　"Luke," requested Blue Leader as he skimmed smoothly through a rain of fire,"let me know when you're off the block."
　　"I'm on my way now."
　　"Watch yourself," the voice urged over the cockpit speaker. "There's a lot offire coming from the starboard side of that deflection tower."
　　"I'm on it, don't worry," Luke responded confidently. Putting his fighter into atwisting dive, he sliced once more across metal horizons. Antennae and smallprotruding emplacements burst into transitory flame as bolts from his wing tips struckwith deadly accuracy.
　　He grinned as he pulled up and away from the surface as intense lines of energypassed through space recently vacated. Darned if it wasn't like hunting womp-ratsback home in the crumbling canyons of Tatooine's wastes.
　　Biggs followed Luke on a similar run, even as Imperial pilots prepared to liftclear of the station. Within the many docking bays technical crews rushed hurriedlyto unlock power cables and conclude desperate final checks.
　　More care was taken in preparing a particular craft nearest one of the bay ports,the one into which Darth Vader barely succeeded in squeezing his huge frame. Onceset in the seat he slid a second set of eye shields across his face.
　　The atmosphere of the war room back in the temple was one of nervousexpectancy. Occasional blinks and buzzes from the main battle screen soundedlouder than the soft sussuration of hopeful people trying to reassure one another.Near a far corner of the mass of flickering lights a technician leaned a little closer tohis own readouts before speaking into the pickup suspended near his mouth.
　　"Squad leaders-attention; squad leaders-attention! We've picked up a newset of signals from the other side of the station. Enemy fighters coming your way."
　　Luke received the report at the same time as everyone else. He began huntingthe sky for the predicted Imperial craft, his gaze dropping to his instrumentation."My scope's negative. I don't see anything."
　　"Maintain visual scanning," Blue Leader directed. "With all this energy flying,they'll be on top of you before your scope can pick them up. Remember, they canjam every instrument on your ship except your eyes."
　　Luke turned again, and this time saw an Imperial already pursuing an X-wing-and X-wing with a number Luke quickly recognized.
　　"Biggs!" he shouted. "You've picked one up. On your tail´watch it!"
　　"I can't see it," came his friend's panicked response. "Where is he? I can'tsee it!"
　　Luke watched helplessly as Biggs's ship shot away from the station surface andout into clear space, closely followed by the Imperial. The enemy vessel firedsteadily at him, each successive bolt seeming to pass a little closer to Biggs's hull.
　　"He's on my tight," the voice sounded in Luke's cockpit. "I can't shake him."
　　Twisting, spinning, Biggs looped back toward the battle station, but the pilottrailing him was persistent and showed no sign of relinquishing pursuit.
　　"Hang on, Biggs," Luke called, wrenching his ship around so steeply that thestraining gyros whined. "I'm coming in."
　　So absorbed in his pursuit of Biggs was the Imperial pilot that he didn't see Luke,who rotated his own ship, flipped out of the concealing gray below and dropped inbehind him.
　　Electronic crosshairs lined up according to the computer-readout instructions,and Luke fired repeatedly. There was a small explosion in space-tiny comparedwith the enormous energies being put out by the emplacements on the surface of thebattle station. But the explosion was of particular significance to three people: Luke,Biggs, and, most particularly, to the pilot of the Tie fighter, who was vaporized withhis ship.
　　"Got him!" Luke murmured.
　　"I've got one! I've got one!" came a less restrained cry of triumph over theopen intercom. Luke identified the voice as belonging to a young pilot known asJohn D. Yes, that was Blue Six chasing another Imperial fighter across the metallandscape. Bolts jumped from the X-wing in steady succession until the Tie fighterblew in half, sending leaf-like glittering metal fragments flying in all directions.
　　"Good shooting, Blue Six," the squadron leader commented. Then he addedquickly, "Watch out, you've got one on your tail."
　　Within the fighter's cockpit the gleeful smile on the young man's face vanishedinstantly as he looked around, unable to spot his pursuer. Something flared brightlynearby, so close that his starboard port burst. Then something hit even closer and theinterior of the now open cockpit became a mass of flames.
　　"I'm hit, I'm hit!"
　　That was all he had time to scream before oblivion took him from behind. Farabove and to one side Blue Leader saw John D.'s ship expand in fiery ball. His lipsmay have whitened slightly. Otherwise he might as well never have seen the X-wingexplode, for all the reaction he displayed. He had more important things to do.
　　On the fourth moon of Yavin a spacious screen chose that moment to flicker anddie, much as John D. had. Worried technicians began rushing in all directions.One turned a drawn face to Leia, the expectant Commanders, and one tall, bronzedrobot.
　　"The high-band receiver has failed. It will take some time to fix´"
　　"Do the best you can," Leia snapped. "Switch to audio only."
　　Someone overheard, and in seconds the room was filled with the sounds ofdistant battle, interspersed with the voices of those involved.
　　"Tighten it up, Blue Two, tighten it up," Blue Leader was saying. "Watch thosetowers."
　　"Heavy fire, Boss," came to the voice of Wedge Antilles, "twenty-three degrees."
　　"I see it. Pull in, pull in. We're picking up some interference."
　　"I can't believe it," Biggs was stammering. "I've never seen such firepower!"
　　"Pull in, Blue Five. Pull in." A pause, then, "Luke, do you read me?Luke?"
　　"I'm all right, Chief," came Luke's reply. "I've got a target. I'm going tocheck it out."
　　"There's too much action down there, Luke," Biggs told him. "Get out. Doyou read me, Luke? Pull out."
　　"Break off, Luke," ordered the deeper tones of Blue Leader. "We've hit toomuch interference here. Luke, I repeat, break off! I can't see him. Blue Two, doyou see Blue Five?"
　　"Negative," Wedge replied quickly. "There's a fire zone here you wouldn'tbelieve. My scanner's jammed. Blue Five, where are you? Luke, are you allright?"
　　"He's gone," Biggs started to report solemnly. Then his voice rose. "No,wait´there he is! Looks like a little fin damage, but the kid's fine."
　　Relief swept the war room, and it was most noticeable in the face of the slightest,most beautiful Senator present.
　　On the battle station, troopers worn half to death or deafened by the concussionof the big guns were replaced by fresh crews. None of them had time to wonder howthe battle was going, and at the moment none of them much cared, a malady shared bycommon soldiers since the dawn of history.
　　Luke skimmed daringly low over the station's surface, his attention riveted on adistant metal projection.
　　"Stick close, Blue Five," the squadron commander directed him. "Where areyou going?"
　　"I've picked up what looks like a lateral stabilizer," Luke replied. "I'm goingto try for it."
　　"Watch yourself, Blue Five. Heavy fire in your area."
　　Luke ignored the warning as he headed the fighter straight toward the oddlyshaped protuberance. His determination was rewarded when, after saturating it withfire, he saw it erupt in a spectacular ball of superhot gas.
　　"Got it!" he exclaimed. "Continuing south for another one."
　　Within the rebel temple-fortress, Leia listened intently. She seemedsimultaneously angry and frightened. Finally she turned to Threepio and muttered,"Why is Luke taking so many chances?" The tall 'droid didn't reply.
　　"Watch your back, Luke," Biggs's voice sounded over the speakers, "watch yourback! Fighters above you, coming in."
　　Leia strained to see what she could only hear. She wasn't alone. "Help him,Artoo," Threepio was whispering to himself, "and keep holding on."
　　Luke continued his dive even as he looked back and spotted the object of Biggs'sconcern close on his tail. Reluctantly he pulled up and away from the station surface,abandoning his target. His tormentor was good, however, and continued closing onhim.
　　"I can't shake him," he reported.
　　Something cut across the sky toward both ships. "I'm on him, Luke," shoutedWedge Antilles. "Hold on."
　　Luke didn't have to for very long. Wedge's gunnery was precise, and the Tiefighter vanished brightly shortly thereafter.
　　"Good shooting, Wedge." That was Biggs again. "Blue Four, I'm going in.Cover me, Porkins."
　　"I'm right with you, Blue Three," came the other pilot's assurance.
　　Biggs leveled them off, let go with full weaponry. No one ever decided exactlywhat it was he hit, but the small tower that blew up under his energy bolts wasobviously more important than it looked.
　　A series of sequential explosions hopscotched across a large section of the battlestation's surface, leaping from one terminal to the next. Biggs had already shot pastthe area of disturbance, but his companion, following slightly behind, received a fulldose of whatever energy was running wild down there.
　　"I've got a problem," Porkins announced. "My converter's running wild."That was an understatement. Every instrument on his control panels had abruptlygone berserk.
　　"Eject-eject, Blue Four," advised Biggs. "Blue Four, do you read?"
　　"I'm okay," Porkins replied. "I can hold her. Give me a little room to run,Biggs."
　　"You're too low," his companion yelled. "Pull up, pull up!"
　　With his instrumentation not providing proper information, and at the altitude hewas traveling, Porkins's ship was simple for one of the big, clumsy gun emplacementsto track. It did as its designers had intended it should. Porkins's demise was asglorious as it was abrupt.
　　It was comparatively quiet near the pole of the battle station. So intense andvicious had been Blue and Green squadron's assault on the equator that Imperialresistance had concentrated there. Red Leader surveyed the false peace withmournful satisfaction, knowing it wouldn't last for long.
　　"Blue Leader, this is Red Leader," he announced into his mike. "We're startingour attack run. The exhaust port is located and marked. No flak, no enemy fightersup here-yet. Looks like we'll get at least one smooth run at it."
　　"I copy, Red Leader," the voice of his counterpart responded. "We'll try tokeep them busy down here."
　　Three Y-wing fighters dropped out of the stars, diving toward the battle-stationsurface. At the last possible minute they swerved to dip into a deep artificial canyon,one of many streaking the northern pole of the Death Star. Metal ramparts raced paston three sides of them.
　　Red Leader hunted around, notice the temporary absence of Imperial fighters.He adjusted a control and addressed his squadron.
　　"This is it, boys. Remember, when you think you're close, go in closer beforeyou drop that rock. Switch all power to front deflector screens-never mind whatthey throw at your from the side. We can't worry about that now."
　　Imperial crews lining the trench rudely awoke to the fact that their heretoforeignored section of the station was coming under attack. They reacted speedily, andsoon energy bolts were racing at the attacking ships in a steadily increasing volume.Occasionally on would explode near one of the onrushing Y-wings, jostling it withoutreal damage.
　　"A little aggressive, aren't they," Red Two reported over his mike.
　　Red Leader reacted quietly. "How many guns do you think, Red Five.?"
　　Red Five, known casually to most of the rebel pilots as Pops, somehow managedto make an estimate of the trench's defenses while simultaneously piloting his fighterthrough the growing hail of fire. His helmet was battered almost to the point ofuselessness from the effects of more battles than anyone had a right to survive.
　　"I'd say about twenty emplacements," he finally decided, "some in the surfaceand some on the towers."
　　Red Leader acknowledged the information with a grunt as he pulled hiscomputer-targeting visor down in front of his face. Explosions continued to rock thefighter. "Switch to targeting computers," he declared.
　　"Red Two," came one reply, "computer locked in and I'm getting a signal."The young pilot's rising excitement marked his reply.
　　But the senior pilot among all the rebels, Red Five, was expectantly cool andconfident-though it didn't sound like it from what he murmured half to himself: "Nodoubt about it, this is going to be some trick."
　　Unexpectedly, all defensive fire from the surrounding emplacements ceased.An eerie quiet clung to the trench as the surface continued to blur past the skimmingY-wings.
　　"What's this?" Red Two blurted, looking around worriedly. "They stopped.Why?"
　　"I don't like it," growled Red Leader. But there was noting to confuse theirapproach now, no energy bolts to avoid.
　　It was Pops who was first to properly evaluate this seeming aberration on theenemy's part. "Stabilize your rear deflectors now. Watch for enemy fighters."
　　"You pinned it, Pops," Red Leader admitted, studying a readout. "Here theycome. Three marks at two-ten."
　　A mechanical voice continued to recite the shrinking distance to their target, butit wasn't shrinking fast enough. "We're sitting ducks down here," he observednervously.
　　"We'll just have to ride it out," the old man told them all. "We can't defendourselves and go for the target at the same time." He fought down old reflexes as hisown screen revealed three Tie fighters in precision formation diving almost verticallydown toward them.
　　"Three-eight-one-oh-four," Darth Vader announced as he calmly adjusted hiscontrols. The stars whipped past behind him. "I'll take them myself. Cover me."
　　Red Two was the first to die, the young pilot never knowing what hit him, neverseeing his executioner. Despite his experience, Red Leader was on the verge ofpanic when he saw his wingman dissolve in flame.
　　"We're trapped down here. No way to maneuver-trench walls are too close.We've got to loosen it up somehow. Got-"
　　"Stay on target," admonished an older voice. "Stay on target."
　　Red Leader took Pops's words like tonic, but it was all he could do to ignore theclosing Tie fighters as the two remaining Y-wings continued to streak toward thetarget.
　　Above them, Vader permitted himself a moment of undisciplined pleasure as hereadjusted his targeting 'puter. The rebel craft continued to travel a straight,unevasive course. Again Vader touched finger to fire control.
　　Something screeched in Red Leader's helmet, and fire started to consume hisinstrumentation. "It's no good," he yelled into his pickup, "I'm hit. I'm hit´!"
　　A second Y-wing exploded in a ball of vaporized metal, scattering a few solidshards of debris across the trench. This second loss proved too much even for RedFive to take. He manipulated controls, and his ship commenced rising in a slowcurve out of the trench. Behind him, the lead Imperial fighter moved to follow.
　　"Red Five to Blue Leader," he reported. "Aborting run under heavy fire. Tiefighters dropped on us out of nowhere. I can't-wait-"
　　Astern, a silent, remorseless enemy was touching a deadly button once more.The first bolts struck just as Pops had risen high enough to commence evasive action.But he had pulled clear a few seconds too late.
　　One energy beam seared his port engine, igniting gas within. The engine blewapart, taking controls and stabilizing elements with it. Unable to compensate, theout-of-control Y-wing began a long, graceful plunge toward the station surface.
　　"Are you all right, Red Five?" a troubled voice called over the intership system.
　　"Lost Tiree´lost Dutch," Pops explained slowly, tiredly. "They drop in behindyou, and you can't maneuver in the trench. Sorry´it's your baby now. So long,Dave´"
　　It was the last message of many from a veteran.
　　Blue Leader forced a crispness he didn't feel into his voice as he tried to shuntaside the death of his old friend. "Blue boys, this is Blue Leader. Rendezvous atmark six point one. All wings report in."
　　"Blue Leader, this is Blue Ten. I copy."
　　"Blue Two here," Wedge acknowledged. "Coming toward you, Blue Leader."
　　Luke was also waiting his turn to report when something beeped on his controlboard. A glance backward confirmed the electronic warning as he spotted anImperial fighter slipping in behind him.
　　"This is Blue Five," he declared, his ship wobbling as he tried to lose the Tiefighter. "I have a problem here. Be right with you."
　　He sent his ship into a steep dive toward the metal surface, then cut sharply up toavoid a burst of defensive fire from emplacements below. Neither maneuver shookhis pursuit.
　　"I see you, Luke," came a reassuring call from Biggs. "Stay with it."
　　Luke looked above, below, and to the sides, but there was no sign of his friend.Meanwhile, energy bolts from his trailing assailant were passing uncomfortably close.
　　"Blast it, Biggs, where are you?"
　　Something appeared, not to the sides or behind, but almost directly in front ofhim. It was bright and moving incredibly fast, and then it was firing just above him.Taken completely by surprise, the Imperial fighter came apart just as its pilot realizedwhat had happened.
　　Luke turned for the rendezvous mark as Biggs shot past overhead. "Good move,Biggs. Fooled me, too."
　　"I'm just getting started," his friend announced as he twisted his ship violently toavoid the fire from below. He hove into view over Luke's shoulder and executed avictory roll. "Just point me at the target."
　　Back alongside Yavin's indifferent bulk, Dodonna finished an intense discussionwith several of his principal advisors, then moved to the long-range transmitter.
　　"Blue Leader, this is Base One. Double-check your own attack prior tocommencement. Have your wingmen hold back and cover for you. Keep half ofyour group out of range to make the next run."
　　"Copy, Base On," the response came. "Blue Ten, Blue Twelve, join with me."
　　Two ships leveled off to flank the squadron commander. Blue Leader checkedthem out. Satisfied that they were positioned properly for attack run, he set thegroup to follow in case they should fail.
　　"Blue Five, this is Blue Leader. Luke, take Blue Two and Three with you.Hold up here out of their fire and wait for my signal to start your own run."
　　"Copy, Blue Leader," Luke acknowledged, trying to slow his heart slightly."May the force be with you. Biggs, Wedge, let's close it up." Together, the threefighters assumed a tight formation high above the firefight still raging between otherrebel craft of Green and Yellow squadrons and the imperial gunners below.
　　The horizon flip-flopped ahead of Blue Leader as he commenced his approach tothe station surface. "Blue Ten, Blue Twelve, stay back until we spot those fighters,then cover me."
　　All three X-wings reached the surface, leveled off, then arced into the trench.His wingmen dropped farther and farther behind until Blue Leader was seeminglyalone in the vast gray chasm.
　　No defensive fire greeted him as he raced toward the distant target. He foundhimself looking around nervously, checking and rechecking the same instruments.
　　"This doesn't look right," he found himself muttering.
　　Blue Ten sounded equally concerned. "You should be able to pick up the targetby now."
　　"I know. The disruption down here is unbelievable. I think my instrumentsare off. Is this the right trench?"
　　Suddenly, intense streaks of light began to shoot close by as the trench defensesopened up. Near misses shook the attackers. At the far end of the trench a hugetower dominated the metal ridge, vomiting enormous amounts of energy at thenearing ships.
　　"It's not going to be easy with that tower up there," Blue Leader declared grimly."Stand by to close up a little when I tell you."
　　Abruptly the energy bolts ceased and all was silent and dark in the trench onceagain. "This is it," Blue Leader announced, trying to locate the attack from abovethat had to be coming. "Keep your eyes open for those fighters."
　　"All short- and long-range scopes are blank," Blue Ten reported tensely. "Toomuch interference here. Blue Five, can you see them from where you are?"
　　Luke's attention was riveted to the surface of the station. "No sign of- Wait!"Three rapidly moving points of light caught his eye. "There they are. Coming inpoint three five."
　　Blue Ten turned and looked in the indicated direction. Sun bounced offstabilizing fins as the Tie fighters looped downward. "I see them."
　　"It's the right trench, all right," Blue Leader exclaimed as his tracking scopesuddenly began a steady beeping. He adjusted his targeting instrumentation, pullingthe visor down over his eyes. "I'm almost in range. Targets ready´coming up.Just hold them off me for a few seconds-keep 'em busy."
　　But Darth Vader was ready setting his own fire control as he dropped like a stonetoward the trench. "Close up the formation. I'll take them myself."
　　Blue Twelve went first, both engines blown. A slight deviation in flight pathand his ship slammed into the trench wall. Blue Ten showed and accelerated,bobbed drunkenly, but could do little within the confines of those metal walls.
　　"I can't hold them long. You'd better fire while you can, Blue Leader-we'reclosing on you."
　　The squadron commander was wholly absorbed in lining up two circles withinhis targeting visor. "We're almost home. Steady, steady´"
　　Blue Ten glanced around frantically. "They're right behind me!"
　　Blue Leader was amazed at how calm he was. The targeting device was partlyresponsible, enabling him to concentrate on tiny, abstract images to the exclusion ofall else, helping him to shut out the rest of the inimical universe.
　　"Almost there, almost there´" he whispered. Then the two circles matched,turned red, and a steady buzzing sounded in his helmet. "Torpedoes away, torpedoesaway."
　　Immediately after, Blue Ten let his own missiles loose. Both fighters pulled upsharply, just clearing the end of the trench as several explosions billowed in theirwake.
　　"It's a hit! We've done it!" Blue Ten shouted hysterically.
　　Blue Leader's reply was thick with disappointment. "No, we haven't. theydidn't go in. They just exploded on the surface outside the shaft."
　　Disappointment killed them, too, as they neglected to watch behind them.Three pursuing Imperial fighters continued up out of the fading light from the torpedoexplosions. Blue Ten fell to Vader's precision fire, then the Dark Lord changedcourse slightly to fall in behind the squadron commander.
　　"I'll take the last one," he announced coldly. "You two go back."
　　Luke was trying to pick the assault team out of the glowing gases below whenBlue Leader's voice sounded over the communicator.
　　"Blue Five, this is Blue Leader. Move into position, Luke. Start your attackrun-stay low and wait until you're right on top of it. It's not going to be easy."
　　"Are you all right?"
　　"They're on top of me-but I'll shake them."
　　"Blue Five to Blue pack," Luke ordered, "let's go!" The three ships peeled offand plunged toward the trench sector.
　　Meanwhile Vader finally succeeded in hitting his quarry, a glancing bolt thatnonetheless started small, intense explosions in one engine. Its R-2 unit scrambledback toward the damaged wing and struggled to repair the crippled power plant.
　　"R-2, shut off the main feed to number-one starboard engine," Blue Leaderdirected quietly, staring resignedly at instruments which were running impossibilities."Hang on tight, this could get rough."
　　Luke saw that Blue Leader was in trouble. "We're right above you, BlueLeader," he declared. "Turn to point oh five, and we'll cover for you."
　　"I've lost my upper starboard engine," came the reply.
　　"We'll come down for you."
　　"Negative, negative. Stay there and get set up for your attack run."
　　"You're sure you're all right?"
　　"I think so´Stand by for a minute."
　　Actually, it was somehow less than a minute before Blue Leader's gyrating X-wing plowed into the surface of the station. Luke watched the huge explosiondissipate below him, knowing without question its cause, sensing fully for the firsttime the helplessness of his situation. "We just lost Blue Leader," he murmuredabsently, not particularly caring if his mike picked up the somber announcement.
　　On Yavin Four, Leia Organa rose from her chair and nervously began pacing theroom. Normally perfect nails were now jagged and uneven from nervous chewing.It was the only indication of physical unease. The anxiety visible in her expressionwas far more revealing of her feelings, and anxiety and worry that filled the war roomon the announcement of Blue Leader's death.
　　"Can they go on?" she finally asked Dodonna.
　　The general replied with gentle resolve. "They must."
　　"But we've lost so many. Without Blue or Red Leader, how will theyregroup?"
　　Dodonna was about to reply, but held his words as more critical ones soundedover the speaker.
　　"Close it up, Wedge," Luke was saying, thousands of kilometers away. "Biggs,where are you?"
　　"Coming right behind you."
　　Wedge replied soon after. "Okay, Boss, we're in position."
　　Dodonna's gaze went to Leia. He looked concerned.
　　The three X-wings moved close together high above the battle station's surface.Luke studied his instruments and fought irritably with one control that appeared to bemalfunctioning.
　　Someone's voice sounded in his ears. It was a young-old voice, a familiar voice:calm, content, confident, and reassuring-a voice he had listened to intently on thedesert of Tatooine and in the guts of the station below, once upon a time.
　　"Trust your feelings, Luke," was all the Kenobi-like voice said.
　　Luke tapped his helmet, unsure whether he had heard anything or not. This wasno time for introspection. The steely horizon of the station tilted behind him.
　　"Wedge, Biggs, we're going in," he hold his wingmen. "We'll go in full speed.Never mind finding the trench and then accelerating. Maybe that will keep thosefighters far enough behind us."
　　"We'll stay far enough back to cover you," Biggs declared. "At that speed willyou be able to pull out in time?"
　　"Are you kidding?" Luke sneered playfully as they began their dive toward thesurface. "It'll be just like Beggars Canyon back home."
　　"I'm right with you, boss," noted Wedge, emphasizing the title for the first time."Let's go´"
　　at high speed the three slim fighters charged the glowing surface, pulling outafter the last moment. Luke skimmed so close over the station hull that the tip ofone wing grazed a protruding antenna, sending metal splinters flying. Instantly theywere enveloped in a meshwork of energy bolts and explosive projectiles. Itintensified as they dropped down into the trench. "We seemed to have upset them," Biggs chortled, treating the deadly display ofenergy as though it were all a show being put on for their amusement.
　　"This is fine," Luke commented, surprised at the clear view ahead. "I can seeeverything."
　　Wedge wasn't quite as confident as he studied his own readouts. "My scopeshows the tower, but I can't make out the exhaust port. It must be awfully small.Are you sure the computer can target it?"
　　"It better," Biggs muttered.
　　Luke didn't offer an evaluation-he was too busy holding a course through theturbulence produced by exploding bolts. Then, as if on command, the defensive fireceased. He glanced around and up for sign of the expected Tie fighters, but sawnothing.
　　His hand went to drop the targeting visor into position, and for just a moment hehesitated. Then he swung it down in front of his eyes. "Watch yourselves," heordered his companions.
　　"What about the tower?" Wedge asked worriedly.
　　"You worry about those fighter," Luke snapped. "I'll worry about the tower."
　　They rushed on, closing on the target every second. Wedge stared upward, andhis gaze suddenly froze. "Here they come-oh point three."
　　Vader was setting his controls when one of his wingmen broke attack silence."They're making their approach too fast-they'll never get out in time."
　　"Stay with them," Vader commanded.
　　"They're going too fast to get a fix," his other pilot announced with certainty.
　　Vader studied several readouts and found that his sensors confirmed the otherestimates. "They'll still have to slow down before they reach that tower."
　　Luke contemplated the view in his targeting visor. "Almost home." Secondspassed and the twin circlets achieved congruence. His finger convulsed on the firingcontrol. "Torpedoes away! Pull up, pull up."
　　Two powerful explosions rocked the trench, striking harmlessly far to one side ofthe minute opening. Three Tie fighters shot out of the rapidly dissipating fireball,closing on the retreating rebels. "Take them," Vader ordered softly.
　　Luke detected the pursuit at the same time as his companions. "Wedge, Biggs,split up-it's the only way we'll shake them."
　　The three ships dropped toward the station, then abruptly raced off in threedifferent directions. All three Tie fighters turned and followed Luke.
　　Vader fired on the crazily dodging ship, missed, and frowned to himself. "Theforce is strong with this one. Strange. I'll take him myself."
　　Luke darted between defensive towers and wove a tight path around projectingdocking bays, all to no avail. A single remaining Tie fighter stayed close behind.An energy bolt nicked one wing, close by an engine. It started to spark irregularly,threateningly. Luke fought to compensate and retain full control.
　　Still trying to shake his persistent assailant, he dropped back into a trench again."I'm hit," he announced, "but not bad. Artoo, see what you can do with it."
　　The tiny 'droid unlocked himself and moved to work on the damaged engine asenergy bolts flashed by dangerously close. "Hang on back there," Luke counseledthe Artoo unit as he worked a path around projecting towers, the fighter spinning andtwisting tightly through the topography of the station.
　　Fire remained intense as Luke randomly changed direction and speed. A seriesof indicators on the control panel slowly changed color; three vital gauges relaxed andreturned to where they belonged.
　　"I think you've got it, Artoo," Luke told him gratefully. "I think-there, that'sit. Just try to lock it down so it can't work loose again."
　　Artoo beeped in reply while Luke studied the whirling panorama behind andabove them. "I think we've lost those fighters, too. Blue group, this is Blue Five.Are you clear?" He manipulated several controls and the X-wing shot out of thetrench, still followed by emplacement fire.
　　"I'm up here waiting, Boss," Wedge announced from his position high above thestation. "I can't see you."
　　"I'm on my way. Blue Three, are you clear? Biggs?"
　　"I've had some trouble," his friend explained, "but I think I lost him."
　　Something showed again, damnably, on Biggs's screen. A glance behindshowed the Tie fighter that had been chasing him for the past several minutesdropping in once more behind him. He swung down toward the station again.
　　"Nope, not yet," Biggs told the others. "Hold on, Luke. I'll be right there."
　　A thin, mechanical voice sounded over the speakers. "Hold on, Artoo, hangon!" Back at the temple headquarters, Threepio turned away from the curioushuman faces which had turned to stare at him.
　　As Luke soared high above the station another X-wing swung in close to him.He recognized Wedge's ship and began hunting around anxiously for his friend.
　　"We're goin' in, Biggs-join up. Biggs, are you all right? Biggs!" Therewas no sign of the other fighter. "Wedge, do you see him anywhere?"
　　Within the transparent canopy of the fighter bobbing close by, a helmeted headshook slowly. "Nothing," Wedge told him over the communicator. "Wait a littlelonger. He'll show."
　　Luke looked around, worried, studied several instruments, then came to adecision. "We can't wait; we've got to go now. I don't think he made it."
　　"Hey, you guys," a cheerful voice demanded to another ship racing past andslowing slightly ahead of him. "Don't ever give up on old Biggs," the intercomdirected as the figure in the X-wing ahead looked back at them.
　　Within the central control room of the battle station, a harried officer rushed upto a figure studying the great battle screen and waved a handful of printout at him.
　　"Sir, we've completed an analysis of their attack plan. There is a danger.Should we break off the engagement or make plans to evacuate? Your ship isstanding by."
　　Governor Tarkin turned an incredulous gaze on the officer, who shrank back."Evacuate!" he roared. "At our moment of triumph? We are about to destroy thelast remnants of the Alliance, and you call for evacuation? You overestimate theirchances badly´Now, get out!"
　　Overwhelmed by the Governor's fury, the subdued officer turned and retreatedfrom the room.
　　"We're going in," Luke declared as he commenced his dive toward the surface.Wedge and Biggs followed just aft.
　　"Let's go-Luke," a voice he had heard before sounded inside his head. Againhe tapped his helmet and looked around. It sounded as if the speaker were standingjust behind him. But there was nothing, only silent metal and nonverbalinstrumentation. Puzzled, Luke turned back to his controls.
　　Once more, energy bolts reached out for them, passing harmlessly on both sidesas the surface of the battle station charged up into his face. But the defensive firewasn't the cause of the renewed trembling Luke suddenly experienced. Severalcritical gauges were beginning their swing back into the danger zone again.
　　He leaned toward the pickup. "Artoo, those stabilizing elements must havebroken loose again. See if you can't lock it back down-I've got to have fullcontrol."
　　Ignoring the bumpy ride, the energy beams and explosions lighting space aroundhim, the little robot moved to repair the damage.
　　Additional, tireless explosions continued to buffet the three fighters as theydropped into the trench. Biggs and Wedge dropped behind to cover for Luke as hereached to pull down the targeting visor.
　　For the second time a peculiar hesitation swept through him. His hand wasslower yet as he finally pulled the device down in front of his eyes, almost as if thenerves were in conflict with one another. As expected, the energy beams stopped asif on signal and he was barreling down the trench unchallenged.
　　"Here we go again," Wedge declared as he spotted three Imperial fightersdropping down on them.
　　Biggs and Wedge began crossing behind Luke, trying to draw the coming fireaway from him and confuse their pursuers. One Tie fighter ignored the maneuvers,continuing to gain inexorably on the rebel ships.
　　Luke stared into the targeting device-then reached up slowly to move it aside.For a long minute he pondered the deactivated instrument, staring at it as ifhypnotized. Then he slid it sharply back in front of his face and studied the tinyscreen as it displayed the shifting relationship of the X-wing to the nearing exhaustport.
　　"Hurry, Luke," Biggs called out as he wrenched his ship in time to narrowlyavoid a powerful beam. "They're coming in faster this time. We can't hold themmuch longer."
　　With inhuman precision, Darth Vader depressed the fire control of his fighteragain. A loud, desperate shout sounded over the speakers, blending into a finalagonized scream of flesh and metal as Biggs's fighter burst into a billion glowingsplinters that rained down on the bottom of the trench.
　　Wedge heard the explosion over his speakers and hunted frantically behind himfor the trailing enemy ship. "We lost Biggs," he yelled toward his own pickup.
　　Luke didn't reply immediately. His eyes were watering, and he angrily wipedthem clear. They were blurring his view of the targeting readout.
　　"We're a couple of shooting stars, Biggs," he whispered huskily, "and we'llnever be stopped." His ship rocked slightly from a near miss and he directed hiswords to his remaining wingman, biting down hard on the end of each sentence.
　　"Close it up, Wedge. You can't do any more good back there. Artoo, try togive me a little more power on our rear reflectors."
　　The Artoo unit hurried to comply as Wedge pulled up alongside Luke's ship.The trailing Tie fighters also increased their speed.
　　"I'm on the leader," Vader informed his soldiers. "Take the other one."
　　Luke flew just in front of Wedge, slightly to port side. Energy bolts from thepursuing Imperials began to streak close about them. Both men crossed each other'spath repeatedly, striving to present as confusing a target as possible.
　　Wedge was fighting with his controls when several small flashes and sparks lithis control board. One small panel exploded, leaving molten slag behind.Somehow he managed to retain control of the ship.
　　"I've got a bad malfunction, Luke. I can't stay with you."
　　"Okay, Wedge, get clear."
　　Wedge mumbled a heartfelt "Sorry" and peeled up out of the trench.
　　Vader, concentrating his attention on the one ship remaining before him, fired.
　　Luke didn't see the near-lethal explosion, which burst close behind him. Nordid he have time to examine the smoking shell of twisted metal, which now rodealongside one engine. The arms went limp on the little 'droid.
　　All three Tie fighters continued to chase the remaining X-wing down the trench.It was only a matter of moments before one of them caught the bobbing fighter with acrippling burst. Except now there were only two Imperial pursuing. The third hadbecome an expanding cylinder of decomposing debris, bits and pieces of whichslammed into the walls of the canyon.
　　Vader's remaining wingman looked around in panic for the source of the attack.The same distortion fields that confused rebel instrumentation now did likewise to thetwo Tie fighters.
　　Only when the fighter fully eclipsed the sun forward did the new threat becomevisible. It was a Corellian transport, far larger than any fighter, and it was divingdirectly at the trench. But it didn't move precisely like a freighter, somehow.
　　Whoever was piloting that vehicle must have been unconscious or out of hismind, the wingman decided. Wildly he adjusted controls in an attempt to avoid theanticipated collision. The freighter swept by just overhead, but in missing it thewingman slid too far to one side.
　　A small explosion followed as two huge fins of the paralleling Tie fightersintersected. Screaming uselessly into his pickup, the wingman fluttered toward thenear trench wall. He never touched it, his ship erupting in flame before contact.
　　To the other side, Darth Vader's fighter began spinning helplessly.Unimpressed by the Dark Lord's desperate glower, various controls and instrumentsgave back readings, which were brutally truthful. Completely out of control, the tinyship continued spinning in the opposite direction from the destroyed wingman-outinto the endless reaches of deep space.
　　Whoever was at the controls of the supple freighter was neither unconscious norinsane-well, perhaps slightly touched, but fully in command nonetheless. It soaredhigh above the trench, turning to run protectively above Luke.
　　"You're all clear now, kid," a familiar voice informed him. "Now blow thisthing so we can all go home."
　　This pep talk was followed by a reinforcing grunt, which could only have beenproduced by a particularly large Wookie.
　　Luke looked up through the canopy and smiled. But his smile faded as heturned back to the targeting visor. There was a tickling inside his head.
　　"Luke´trust me," the tickle requested, forming words for the third time. Hestared into the targeter. The emergency exhaust port was sliding toward the firingcircle again, as it had once before-when he'd missed. He hesitated, but only brieflythis time, then shoved the targeting screen aside. Closing his eyes, he appeared tomumble to himself, as if in internal conversation with something unseen. With theconfidence of a blind man in familiar surroundings, Luke moved a thumb over severalcontrols, then touched one. Soon after, a concerned voice filled the cockpit from theopen speakers.
　　"Base One to Blue Five, your targeting device is switched off. What's wrong?"
　　"Nothing," Luke murmured, barely audible. "Nothing."
　　He blinked and cleared his eyes. Had he been asleep? Looking around, hesaw that he was out of the trench and shooting back into open space. A glanceoutside showed the familiar shape of Han Solo's ship shadowing him. Another, atthe control board, indicated that he had released his remaining torpedoes, although hecouldn't remember touching the firing stud. Still, he must have.
　　The cockpit speakers were alive with excitement. "You did it! You did it!"Wedge was shouting over and over. "I think they went right in."
　　"Good shot kid." Solo complimented him, having to raise his voice to be heardover Chewbacca's unrestrained howling.
　　Distant, muted rumblings shook Luke's ship, an omen of incipient success. Hemust have fired the torpedoes, mustn't he? Gradually he regained his composure.
　　"Glad´you were here to see it. Now let's get some distance between us andthat thing before it goes. I hope Wedge was right."
　　Several X-wings, Y-wings, and one battered-looking freighter accelerated awayfrom the battle station, racing toward the distant curve of Yavin.
　　Behind them small flashes of fading light marked the receding station. Withoutwarning, something appeared in the sky in place of it, which was brighter than theglowing gas giant, brighter than its far-off sun. For a few seconds the eternal nightbecame day. No one dared look directly at it. Not even multiple shields set on highcould dim that awesome flare.
　　Space filled temporarily with trillions of microscopic metal fragments, propelledpast the retreating ships by the liberated energy of a small artificial sun. Thecollapsed residue of the battle station would continued to consume itself for severaldays, forming for that brief span of time the most impressive tombstone in this cornerof the cosmos.

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
    

A New Hope
XIII

　　A cheering, gleeful throng of technicians, mechanics, and other inhabitants of theAlliance headquarters swarmed around each fighter as it touched down and taxied intothe temple hangar. Several of the other surviving pilots had already vacated theirships and were waiting to greet Luke.
　　On the opposite side of the fighter, the crowd was far smaller and morerestrained. It consisted of a couple of technicians and one tall, humanoid 'droid whowatched worriedly as the humans mounted the scorched fighter and lifted a badlyburned metal hulk from its back.
　　"Oh, my! Artoo?" Threepio pleaded, bending close to the carbonized robot."Can you hear me? Say something." His unwinking gaze turned to one of thetechs. "You can repair him, can't you?"
　　"We'll do our best." The man studied the vaporized metal, the danglingcomponents. "He's taken a terrible beating."
　　"You must repair him! Sir, if any of my circuits or modules will help, I'llgladly donate them´"
　　they moved slowly away, oblivious to the noise and excitement around them.Between robots and the humans who repaired them there existed a very specialrelationship. Each partook a little of the other and sometimes the dividing linebetween man and machine was more blurred than many would admit.
　　The center of the carnival atmosphere was formed by three figures who battled tosee who could compliment the others the most. When it came to congratulatoryback-slapping, however, Chewbacca won by default. There was laughter as theWookie looked embarrassed at having nearly flattened Luke in his eagerness to greethim.
　　"I know you'd come back," Luke was shouting, "I just know it! I would'vebeen nothing but dust if you hadn't sailed in like that, Han!"
　　Solo had lost none of his smug self-assurance. "Well, I couldn't very well let aflying farm boy go up against that station all by himself. Besides, I was beginning torealize what could happen, and I felt terrible about it, Luke-leaving you to maybetake all the credit and get all the reward."
　　As they laughed, a little figure, robes flowing rushed up to Luke in a veryunsenatorial fashion. "You did it, Luke, you did it!" Leia was shouting.
　　She fell into his arms and hugged him as he spun her around. Then she movedto Solo and repeated the embrace. Expectantly, the Corellian was not quite asembarrassed.
　　Suddenly awed by the adulation of the crowd, Luke turned away. He gave thetired fighter a look of approval, then found his gaze traveling upward, up to theceiling high overhead. For a second he thought he heard something faintly like agratified sigh, a relaxing of muscles a crazy old man had once performed in momentsof pleasure. Of course, it was probably the intruding hot wind of a steaming jungleworld, but Luke smiled anyway at what he thought he saw up here.
　　There were many rooms in the vast expanse of the temple, which had beenconverted for modern service by the technicians of the Alliance. Even in theirdesperate need, however, there was something too clean and classically beautifulabout the ruins of the ancient throne room for the architects to modify. They had leftit as it was, save for scouring it clear of creeping jungle growth and debris.
　　For the first time in thousands of years that spacious chamber was full.Hundreds of rebel troops and technicians stood assembled on the old stone floor,gathered together for one last time before dispersing to new posts and distant homes.For the first time ever the massed ranks of pressed uniforms and polished semi-armorstood arrayed together in a fitting show of Alliance might.
　　The banners of the many worlds which had lent support to the rebellion flutteredin the gentle breeze formed inside. At the far end of a long open aisle stood a visiongowned in formal white, barred with chalcedony waves-Leia Organa's signet ofoffice.
　　Several figures appeared at the far end of the aisle. One, massive and hirsute,showed signs of running for cover, but was urged on down the open row by hiscompanion. It took several minutes for Luke, Han, Chewie, and Threepio to coverthe distance to the other end.
　　They stopped before Leia, and Luke recognized General Dodonna among theother dignitaries seated nearby. There was a pause and a gleaming, familiar Artoounit joined the group, moving to stand next to a thoroughly awestruck Threepio.
　　Chewbacca shuffled nervously, giving every indication of wishing he weresomeplace else. Solo silenced him as Leia rose and came forward. At the sametime banners tilted in unison and all those gathered in the great hall turned to face thedais.
　　She place something heavy and golden around Solo's neck, then Chewbacca's-having to strain to do so-and finally around Luke's. Then she made a signal to thecrowd, and the rigid discipline dissolved as every man, woman, and mechanicalpresent was permitted to give full vent to their feelings.
　　As he stood awash in the cheers and shouts, Luke found that his mind wasneither on his possible future with the Alliance nor on the chance of travelingadventurously with Han Solo and Chewbacca. Instead, unlikely as Solo had claimedit might be, he found his full attention occupied by the radiant Leia Organa.
　　She noticed his unabashed stare, but this time she only smiled.

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
    

The Empire Strikes Back
I

　　"Now this is what I call cold!" Luke Skywalker's voice broke the silence he hadobserved since leaving the newly established Rebel base hours earlier. He wasastride a Tauntaun, the only other living being as far as the eye could see. He felttired and alone, and the sound of his own voice startled him.
　　Luke as well as his fellow members of the Rebel Alliance took turns exploringthe white wastelands of Hoth, gathering information about their new home. They allreturned to base with mixed feelings of comfort and loneliness. There was nothingto contradict their earliest findings that no intelligent lifeforms existed on this coldplanet. All that Luke had seen on his solitary expeditions were barren white plainsand ranges of blue-tinged mountains that seemed to vanish in the mists of the distanthorizons.
　　Luke smiled behind the masklike gray bandana that protected him against Hoth'sfrigid winds. Peering out at the icy wastes through his goggles, he pulled hisfur-lined cap down more snugly about his head.
　　One corner of his mouth curled upward as he tried to visualize the officialresearchers in the service of the Imperial government. "The galaxy is peppered withsettlements of colonizers who care little about the affairs of the Empire or itsopposition, the Rebel Alliance," he thought. "But a settler would have to be crazy tostake his claims on Hoth. This planet doesn't have a thing to offer anyone exceptus."
　　The Rebel Alliance had established an outpost on the ice world little more than amonth before. Luke was well-known on the base and, although barely twenty-threeyears old, he was addressed as Commander Skywalker by other Rebel warriors. Thetitle made him feel a bit uncomfortable. Nonetheless, he was already in the positionof giving orders to a band of seasoned soldiers. So much had happened to Luke andhe had changed a great deal. Luke, himself, found it hard to believe that only threeyears ago he was a wide-eyed farm boy on his home world of Tatooine.
　　The youthful commander spurred his Tauntaun. "Come on, girl," he urged.
　　The snow-lizard's gray body was insulated from the cold by a covering of thickfur. It galloped on muscular hind legs, its tridact1 feet terminating in large hookedclaws that dug up great plumes of snow. The Tauntaun's 1lamalike head thrustforward and its serpentine tail coiled out behind as the beast ran up the ice slope.The animal's horned head turned from side to side buffeting the winds that assaulted itshaggy muzzle.
　　Luke wished his mission were finished. His body felt nearly frozen in spite ofhis heavily padded Rebel-issue clothing. But he knew that it was his choice to bethere; he had volunteered to ride across the ice fields looking for other lifeforms. Heshivered as he looked at the long shadow he and the beast cast on the snow. "Thewinds are picking up," he thought. "And these chilling winds bring unendurabletemperatures to the plains after nightfall." He was tempted to return to the base alittle early, but he knew the importance of establishing the certainty that the Rebelswere alone on Hoth.
　　The Tauntaun quickly turned to the right, almost throwing Luke off-balance.He was still getting used to riding the unpredictable creatures. "No offense," he saidto his mount, "but I'd feel a lot more at ease in the cockpit of my old reliablelandspeeder." But for this mission, a Tauntaun-despite its disadvantages-was themost efficient and practical form of transportation available on Hoth.
　　When the beast reached the top of another ice slope, Luke brought the animal tohalt. He pulled off his dark-lensed goggles and squinted for a few moments, justlong enough for his eyes to adjust to the blinding glare of the snow.
　　Suddenly his attention was diverted by the appearance of an object streakingacross the sky, leaving behind a lingering trail of smoke as it dipped toward the mistyhorizon. Luke flashed his gloved hand to his utility belt and clutched his pair ofelectrobinoculars. Apprehensive, he felt a chill that competed with the coldness ofthe Hoth atmosphere. What he had seen could have been manmade, perhaps evensomething launched by the Empire. The young commander, still focused on theobject, followed its fiery course and watched intently as it crashed on the whiteground and was consumed in its own explosive brilliance.
　　At the sound of the explosion, Luke's Tauntaun shuddered. A fearful growlescaped its muzzle and it began to claw nervously at the snow. Luke patted theanimal's head, trying to reassure the beast. He found it difficult to hear himself overthe blustering wind. "Easy, girl, it's just another meteorite!" he shouted. Theanimal calmed and Luke brought the communicator to his mouth. "Echo Three toEcho Seven. Han ol' buddy, do you read me?"
　　Static crackled from the receiver. Then a familiar voice cut through theinterference. "Is that you, kid? What's up?"
　　The voice sounded a little older and somewhat sharper than Luke's. For amoment Luke fondly recalled first meeting the Corellian space smuggler in that dark,alien-packed cantina at a spaceport on Tatooine. And now he was one of Luke'sonly friends who was not an official member of the Rebel Alliance.
　　"I've finished my circle and I haven't picked up any life readings," Luke spokeinto his comlink, pressing his mouth close to the transmitter.
　　"There isn't enough life on this ice cube to fill a space cruiser," Han answered,fighting to make his voice heard above the whistling winds. "My sentry markers areplaced. I'm heading back to base."
　　"See you shortly," Luke replied. He still had his eye on the twisting column ofdark smoke rising from a black spot in the distance. "A meteorite just hit the groundnear here and I want to check it out. I won't be long."
　　Clicking off his comlink, Luke turned his attention to his Tauntaun. Thereptilian creature was pacing, shifting its weight from one foot to the other. It gaveout a deep-throated roar that seemed to signal fear.
　　"Whoa, girl!" he said, patting the Tauntaun's head. "What's the matter´yousmell something? There's nothing out there."
　　But Luke, too, was beginning to feel uneasy, for the first time since he had setout from the hidden Rebel base. If he knew anything about these snow-lizards, itwas that their senses were keen. Without question the animal was trying to tell Lukethat something, some danger, was near.
　　Not wasting a moment, Luke removed a small object from his utility belt andadjusted its miniature controls. The device was sensitive enough to zero in on eventhe most minute life readings by detecting body temperature and internal life systems.But as Luke began to scan the readings, he realized there was no need-or time-tocontinue.
　　A shadow crossed over him, towering above by a good meter and a half. Lukespun around and suddenly it seemed as if the terrain itself had come to life. A greatwhite-furred bulk, perfectly camouflaged against the sprawling mounds of snow,rushed savagely at him.
　　"Son of a jumpin'´"
　　Luke's hand blaster never cleared its holster. The huge claw of the Wampa IceCreature struck him hard and flat against his face, knocking him off the Tauntaun andinto the freezing snow.
　　Unconsciousness came swiftly to Luke, so swiftly that he never even heard thepitiful screams of the Tauntaun nor the abrupt silence following the sound of asnapping neck. And he never felt his own ankle savagely gripped by his giant, hairyattacker, or felt his body dragged like a lifeless doll across the snow-covered plain.
　　Black smoke was still rising from the depression in the hillside where theair-borne thing had fallen. The smoky clouds had thinned considerably since theobject had crashed to the ground and formed a smoldering crater, the dark fumesbeing dispersed over the plains by the icy Hoth winds.
　　Something stirred within the crater.
　　First there was only a sound, a droning mechanical sound swelling in intensity asif to compete with the howling wind. Then the thing moved-something that glintedin the bright afternoon light as it slowly began to ride from the crater.
　　The object appeared to be some form of alien organic life, its head a multiorbed,skull-like horror, its dark-lensed blister eyes training their cold gaze across the evencolder reaches of wilderness. But as the thing rose higher from the crater, its formshowed it clearly to be a machine of some sort, a circular head, and equipped withcameras, sensors, and metal appendages, some of which terminated in crablikegrasping pincers.
　　The machine hovered over the smoking crater and extended its appendages invarious directions. Then a signal was set off within its internal mechanical systems,and the machine began to float across the icy plain.
　　The dark probe droid soon vanished over the distant horizon.
　　Another rider, bundled in winter clothing and mounted on a spotted grayTauntaun, raced across the slopes of Hoth toward the Rebel base of operations.
　　The man's eyes, like points of cold metal, glanced without interest at the domesof dull gray, the myriad gun turrets and the colossal power generators that were theonly indications of civilized life on this world. Han Solo gradually slowed hissnow-lizard, guiding the reins so the creature trotted through the entrance of theenormous ice cave.
　　Han welcomed the relative warmth of the vast complex of caverns, warmed byRebel heating units that obtained their power from the huge generators outside. Thissubterranean base was both a natural ice cave and a maze of angular tunnels blastedfrom a solid mountain of ice by Rebel lasers. The Corellian had been in moredesolate hell-holes in the galaxy, but for the moment he couldn't remember the exactlocation of any one of them.
　　He dismounted his Tauntaun, then glanced around to watch the activity takingplace inside the mammoth cave. Wherever he looked he saw things being carried,assembled, or repaired. Rebels in gray uniforms rushed to unload supplies andadjust equipment. And there were robots, mostly R2 units and power droids, thatseemed to be everywhere, rolling or walking through the ice corridors, efficientlyperforming their innumerable tasks.
　　Han was beginning to wonder if he were mellowing with age. At first he hadhad no personal interest in or loyalty to this whole Rebel affair. His ultimateinvolvement in the conflict between Empire and Rebel Alliance began as a merebusiness transaction, selling his services and use of his ship, the Millennium Falcon.The job had seemed simple enough: Just pilot Ben Kenobi, plus young Luke andtwo droids, to the Alderaan system. How could Han have known at the time that hewould also be called on to rescue a princess from the Empire's most feared battlestation, the Death Star?
　　Princess Leia Organa´
　　The more Solo thought about her, the more he realized how much trouble heeventually bought himself by accepting Ben Kenobi's money. All Han had wantedoriginally was to collect his fee and rocket off to pay back some bad debts that hungover his head like a meteor ready to fall. Never had he intended to become a hero.
　　And yet, something had kept him around to join Luke and his crazy Rebelfriends as they launched the now-legendary space attack on the Death Star.Something. For the present, Han couldn't decide just what that something was.
　　Now, long after the Death Star's destruction, Han was still with the RebelAlliance, lending his assistance to establish this base on Hoth, probably the bleakestof all planets in the galaxy. But all that was about to change, he told himself. Asfar as he was concerned, Han Solo and the Rebels were about to blast off on divergentcourses.
　　He walked rapidly through the underground hangar deck where several Rebelfighter ship were docked and being serviced by men in gray assisted by droids ofvarious designs. Of greatest concern to Han was the saucer-shaped freighter shipresting on its newly installed landing pods. This, the largest ship in the hangar, hadgarnered a few new dents in its metal hull since Han first hooked up with Skywalkerand Kenobi. Yet the Millennium Falcon was famous not for its outward appearancebut for its speed: This freighter was still fastest ship ever to make the Kessel Run orto outrun an Imperial TIE fighter.
　　Much of the Falcon's success could be attributed to its maintenance, nowentrusted to the shaggy hands of a two-meter-tall mountain of brown hair, whose facewas at the moment hidden behind a welder's mask.
　　Chewbacca, Han Solo's giant Wookiee copilot, was repairing the MillenniumFalcon's central lifter when he noticed Solo approaching. The Wookiee stopped hiswork and raised his face shield, exposing his furry countenance. A growl that fewnon-Wookiees in the universe could translate roared from his toothy mouth.
　　Han Solo was one of those few. "Cold isn't the word for it, Chewie," theCorellian replied. "I'll take a good fight any day over all this hiding and freezing!"He noticed the smoky wisps rising from the newly welded section of metal. "Howare you coming with those lifters?"
　　Chewbacca replied with a typical Wookiee grumble.
　　"All right," Han said, fully agreeing with his friend's desire to return to space, tosome other planet-anywhere but Hoth. "I'll go to report. Then I'll give you ahand. Soon as those lifters are fixed, we're out of here."
　　The Wookiee barked, a joyful chuckle, and returned to his work as Hancontinued through the artificial ice cavern.
　　The command center was alive with electronic equipment and monitoringdevices reaching toward the icy ceiling. As in the hangar, Rebel personnel filled thecommand center. The room was full of controller, troopers, maintenancemen-along with droid of varying models and sizes, all of whom were diligentlyinvolved in converting the chamber into a workable base to replace the one on Yavin.
　　The man Han Solo had come to see was busily engaged behind a great console,his attention riveted to a computer screen flashing brilliantly colored readouts.Rieekan, wearing the uniform of a Rebel general, straightened his tall frame to faceSolo as he approached,
　　"General, there isn't a hint of life in the area," Han reported. "But all theperimeter markings are set, so you'll know if anyone comes calling."
　　As usual, General Rieekan did not smile at Solo's flippancy. But he admiredthe young man's taking a kind of unofficial membership in the Rebellion. Soimpressed was Rieekan by Solo's qualities that he often considered giving him anhonorary officer's commission.
　　"Has Commander Skywalker reported in yet?" the general inquired.
　　"He's checking out a meteorite that hit near him," Han answered. "He'll be insoon."
　　Rieekan quickly glanced at a newly installed radar screen and studied theflashing images. "With all the meteor activity in this system, it's going to bedifficult to spot approaching ships."
　　"General, I´" Han hesitated. "I think it's time for me to move on."
　　Han's attention was drawn from General Rieekan to a steadily approachingfigure. Her walk was both graceful and determined, and somehow the youngwoman's feminine features seemed incongruous with her white combat uniform.Even at this distance, Han could tell Princess Leia was upset.
　　"You're good in a fight," the general remarked to Han, adding, "I hate to loseyou."
　　"Thank you, General. But there's a price on my head. If I don't pay off Jabbathe Hut, I'm a walking dead man."
　　"A death mark is not an easy thing to live with-" the officer began as Hanturned to Princess Leia. Solo was not a sentimental sort, but he was aware that hewas very emotional now. "I guess this is it, Your Highness." He paused, notknowing what response to expect from the princess.
　　"That's right," Leia replied coldly. Her sudden aloofness was quickly evolvinginto genuine anger.
　　Han shook his head. Long ago he had told himself that females-mammalian,reptilian, or some biological class yet to be discovered-were beyond his meagerpowers of comprehension. Better leave them to mystery, he'd often advised himself.
　　But for a while, at least, Han had begun to believe that there was at least onefemale in all the cosmos that he was beginning to understand. And yet, he had beenwrong before.
　　"Well," Han said, "don't go all mushy on me. So long, Princess."
　　Abruptly turning his back to her, Han strode into the quiet corridor thatconnected with the command center. His destination was the hangar deck, where agiant Wookiee and a smuggler's freighter-two realities he did understand-werewaiting for him. He was not about to stop walking.
　　"Han!" Leia was rushing after him, slightly out of breath.
　　Coolly, he stopped and turned toward her. "Yes, Your Highness?"
　　"I thought you had decided to stay."
　　There seemed to be real concern in Leia's voice, but Han could not be certain.
　　"That bounty hunter we ran into on Ord Mantell changed my mind."
　　"Does Luke know?" she asked.
　　"He'll know when he gets back," Han replied gruffly.
　　Princess Leia's eyes narrowed, her gaze judging him with a look he knew well.For a moment Han felt like one of the icicles on the surface of the planet.
　　"Don't give me that look," he said sternly. "Every day more bounty hunters aresearching for me. I'm going to pay off Jabba before he sends any more of hisremotes, Gank killers, and who know what else. I've got to get this price off myhead while I still have a head."
　　Leia was obviously affected by his words, and Han could see that she wasconcerned for him as well as, perhaps, feeling something more.
　　"But we still need you," she said.
　　"We?" he asked.
　　"Yes."
　　"What about you?" Han was careful to emphasize the last word, but really wasn'tcertain why. Maybe it was something he had for some time wanted to say but hadlacked the courage-no, he amended, the stupidity-to expose his feelings. At themoment there seemed to be little to lose, and he was ready for whatever she mightsay.
　　"Me?" she said bluntly. "I don't know what you mean."
　　Incredulous, Han Solo shook his head. "No, you probably don't."
　　"And what precisely am I supposed to know?" Anger was growing in her voiceagain, probably because, Han thought, she was finally beginning to understand.
　　He smiled. "You want me to stay because of the way you feel about me."
　　Again the princess mellowed. "Well, yes, you've been a great help," she said,pausing before going on, "´to us. You're a natural leader-"
　　But Han refused to let her finish, cutting her off in midsentence. "No, yourworship. That's not it."
　　Suddenly Leia was staring directly into Han's face with eyes that were, at last,fully understanding. She started to laugh. "You're imagining things."
　　"Am I? I think you were afraid I was going to leave you without even a ´"Han's eyes focused on her lips, "´kiss."
　　She began to laugh harder now. "I'd just as soon kiss a Wookiee."
　　"I can arrange that." He moved closer to her, and she looked radiant even in thecold light of the ice chamber. "Believe me, you could use a good kiss. You'vebeen so busy giving orders, you've forgotten how to be a woman. If you'd have letgo for a moment, I could have helped you. But it's too late now, sweetheart. Yourbig opportunity is flying out of here."
　　"I think I can survive," she said, obviously irked.
　　"Good luck!"
　　"You don't even care if the-"
　　He knew what she was going to say and didn't let her finish. "Spare me,please!" he interrupted. "Don't tell me about the Rebellion again. It's all you thinkabout. You're as cold as this planet."
　　"And you think you're the one to apply some heat?"
　　"Sure, if I were interested. But I don't think it'd be much fun." With that,Han stepped back and looked at her again, appraising her coolly. "We'll meetagain," he said. "Maybe by then you'll have warmed up a little." Her expressionhad changed again. Han had seen killers with kinder eyes.
　　"You have all the breeding of a Bantha," she snarled, "but not as much class.Enjoy your trip, hot shot!" Princess Leia quickly turned away from Han and hurrieddown the corridor.

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
    

The Empire Strikes Back
II

　　The temperature on the surface of Hoth had dropped. But despite the frigid air,the Imperial Probe Droid continued its leisurely drift above the snow-swept fields andhills, its extended sensors still reaching in all directions for life signs.
　　The robot's heat sensors suddenly reacted. It had found a heat source in thevicinity, and warmth was a good indication of life. The head swiveled on its axis,the sensitive eyelike blisters noting the direction from which the heat sourceoriginated. Automatically the probe robot adjusted its speed and began to move atmaximum velocity over the icy fields.
　　The insectlike machine slowed only when it neared a mound of snow bigger thanthe probe droid itself. The robot's scanners made note of the mound's size-nearlyone-point-eight meters in height and an enormous six meters long. But the mound'ssize was of only secondary importance. What was truly astounding, if a surveillancemachine could ever be astounded, was the amount of heat radiating from beneath themound. The creature under that snowy hill must surely be well protected against thecold.
　　A thin blue-white beam of light shot from one of the probe robot's appendages,its intense heat boring into the white mound and scattering gleaming snow flecks inall directions.
　　The mound began to shiver, then to quake. Whatever existed beneath it wasdeeply irritated by the robot's probing laser beam. Snow began to fall away from themound in sizable clumps when, at one end, two eyes showed through the mass ofwhite.
　　Huge yellow eyes peered like twin points of fire at the mechanical creature thatcontinued to blast away with its painful beams. The eyes burned with primevalhatred for the thing that had interrupted its slumber.
　　The mound shook again, with a roar that nearly destroyed the probe droid'sauditory sensors. It zoomed back several meters, widening the space between it andthe creature. The droid had never before encountered a Wampa Ice Creature; itscomputers advised that the beast be dealt with expeditiously.
　　The droid made an internal adjustment to regulate the potency of its laser beam.Less than a moment later the beam was at maximum intensity. The machine aimedthe laser at the creature, enveloping it in a great flaming and smoking cloud.Seconds later the few remaining particles of the Wampa were swept away by the icywinds.
　　The smoke disappeared, leaving behind no physical evidence-save for a largedepression in the snow-that an Ice Creature had ever been there.
　　But its existence had been properly recorded in the memory of the probe droid,which was already continued on its programmed mission.
　　The roars of another Wampa Ice Creature finally awakened the battered youngRebel commander. Luke's head was spinning, aching, perhaps exploding for all hecould tell. With painstaking effort he brought his vision into focus, discerning thathe was in an ice gorge, its jagged walls reflecting the fading twilight.
　　He suddenly realized he was hanging upside down, arms dangling and fingertipssome thirty centimeters from the snowy floor. His ankles were numb. He cranedhis neck and saw that his feet were frozen in ice hanging from the ceiling and that theice was forming on his legs like stalactites. He could feel the frozen mask of hisown blood caked on his face where the Wampa Ice Creature had viciously slashedhim.
　　Again Luke heard the bestial moans, louder now as they resounded through thedeep and narrow passageway of ice. The roars of the monster were deafening. Hewondered which would kill him first, the cold or the fangs and claws of the thing thatinhabited the gorge.
　　I've got to free myself, he thought, get free of this ice. His strength had not yetreturned fully, but with a determined effort, he pulled himself up and reached for theconfining bonds. Still too weak, Luke could not break the ice and fell back into hishanging position, the white floor rushing up at him.
　　"Relax," he said to himself. "Relax."
　　The ice walls creaked with the ever-louder bellows of the approaching creature.Its feet crunched on the frigid ground, coming frightening nearer. It would not belong before the shaggy white horror would be back and possibly warming the coldyoung warrior in the darkness of its belly.
　　Luke's eyes darted about the gorge, finally spotting the pile of gear he hadbrought with him on his mission, now lying in a useless, crumpled heap on the floor.The equipment was nearly a full, unattainable meter beyond his grasp. And with thatgear was a device that entirely captured his attention-a stout handgrip unit with apair of small switches and a surmounting metal disk. The object had once belongedto his father, a former Jedi Knight who had been betrayed and murdered by the youngDarth Vader. But now it was Luke's, given him by Ben Kenobi to be wielded withhonor against Imperial tyranny.
　　In desperation Luke tried twisting his aching body, just enough to reach thediscarded lightsaber. But the freezing cold coursing through his body slowed himdown and weakened him. Luke was beginning to resign himself to his fate as heheard the snarling Wampa Ice Creature approaching. His last feelings of hope werenearly gone when he sensed the presence.
　　But it was not the presence of the white giant that dominated this gorge.
　　Rather, it was that soothing spiritual presence which occasionally visited Luke inmoments of stress or danger. The presence that had first come to him only after oldBen, once again in his Jedi role of Obi-wan Kenobi, vanished into a crumple of hisown dark robes after being cut down by Darth Vader's lightsaber. The presence thatwas sometimes like a familiar voice, an almost silent whisper that spoke directly toLuke's mind.
　　"Luke." The whisper was there again, hauntingly. "Think of the lightsaber inyour hand."
　　The words made Luke's already aching head throb. Then he felt a suddenresurgence of strength, a feeling of confidence that urged him to continue fightingdespite his apparently hopeless situation. His eyes fixed upon the lightsaber. Hishand reached out painfully, the freezing in his limbs already taking its toll. Hesqueezed his eyes shut in concentration. But the weapon was still beyond his reach.He knew that the lightsaber would require more than just struggling to reach.
　　"Gotta relax," Luke told himself, "relax´" his disembodied guardian. "Let theForce flow, Luke."
　　The Force!
　　Luke saw the inverted gorillalike image of the Wampa Ice Creature looming, itsraised arms ending in enormous gleaming claws. He could see the apish face for thefirst time now, and shivered at the sight of the beast's ramlike horns, the quiveringlower jaw with its protruding fangs.
　　But then the warrior divorced the creature from his thoughts. He stoppedstruggling for his weapon, his body relaxed and went limp, allowing his spirit to bereceptive to his teacher's suggestion. Already he could feel coursing through himthat energy field generated by all living beings, that bound the very universe together.
　　As Kenobi had taught him, the Force was within Luke to use as he saw fit.
　　The Wampa Ice Creature spread its black, hooked claws and lumbered towardthe hanging youth. Suddenly the lightsaber, as if by magic, sprang to Luke's hand.Instantly, he depressed a colored button on the weapon, releasing a blade-like beamthat quickly severed his icy bonds.
　　As Luke, weapon in hand, dropped to the floor, the monstrous figure toweringover him took a cautious step backward. The beast's sulfurous eyes blinkedincredulously at the humming lightshaft, a sight baffling to its primitive brain.
　　Though it was difficult to move, Luke jumped to his feet and waved hislightsaber at the snow-white mass of muscle and hair, forcing it back a step, anotherstep. Brining the weapon down, Luke cut through the monster's hide with the bladeof light. The Wampa Ice Creature shrieked, its hideous roar of agony shaking thegorge walls. It turned and hastily lumbered out of the gorge, its white bulk blendingwith the distant terrain.
　　The sky was already noticeably darker, and with the encroaching darkness camethe colder winds. The Force was with Luke, but even that mysterious power couldnot warm him now. Every step he took as he stumbled out of the gorge was moredifficult than the last. Finally, his vision dimming as rapidly as the daylight, Lukestumbled down an embankment of snow and was unconscious before he even reachedthe bottom.
　　In the subsurface main hangar dock, Chewie was getting the Millennium Falconready for takeoff. He looked up from his work to see a rather curious pair of figuresthat had just appeared from around a nearby corner to mingle with the usual Rebelactivity in the hangar.
　　Neither of these figures was human, although one of them had a humanoid shapeand gave the impression of a man in knightly golden armor. His movement wereprecise, almost too precise to be human, as he clanked stiffly through the corridor.His companion required no manlike legs for locomotion, for he was doing quite wellrolling his shorter, barrellike body along on miniature wheels.
　　The shorter of the two droids was beeping and whistling excitedly.
　　"It's not my fault, you malfunctioning tin can," the tall, anthropomorphic droidstated, gesturing with a metallic hand. "I did not ask you to turn on the thermalheater. I merely commented that it was freezing in her chamber. But it's supposedto be freezing. How are we going to get all her things dried out? ´Ah! Here weare."
　　See-Threepio, the golden droid in human shape, paused to focus his opticalsensors on the docked Millennium Falcon.
　　The other robot, Artoo-Detoo, retracted his wheels and frontal leg, and rested hisstout metal body on the ground. The smaller droid's sensors were reading thefamiliar figures of Han Solo and his Wookiee companion as those two continued thework of replacing the freighter's central lifters.
　　"Master Solo, sir," Threepio called, the only one of the robotic twosomeequipped with an imitation human voice. "Might I have a word with you?"
　　Han was not particularly in a mood to be disturbed, especially by this fastidiousdroid. "What is it?"
　　"Mistress Leia has been trying to reach you on the communicator," Threepioinformed him. "It must be malfunctioning."
　　But Han knew that it was not. "I shut it off," he said sharply as he continued towork on his ship. "What does her royal holiness want?"
　　Threepio's auditory sensors identified the disdain in Han's voice but did notunderstand it. The robot mimicked a human gesture as he added, "She is looking forMaster Luke and assumed he would be here with you. No one seems to know-"
　　"Luke's not back yet?" Immediately Han became concerned. He could seethat the sky beyond the ice cavern entrance had grown considerably darker since heand Chewbacca had begun to repair the Millennium Falcon. Han knew just howseverely the temperatures dropped on the surface after nightfall and how deadly thewinds could be.
　　In a flash he jumped off the Falcon's lift, not even looking back toward theWookiee. "Bolt it down, Chewie. Officer of the Deck!" Han yelled, then broughthis comlink to his mouth and asked, "Security Control, has Commander Skywalkerreported in yet?" A negative reply brought a scowl to Han's face.
　　The deck sergeant and his aide hurried up to Solo in response to his summons.
　　"Is Commander Skywalker back yet?" Han asked, tension in his voice.
　　"I haven't seen him," the deck sergeant replied. "It's possible he came inthrough the south entrance."
　　"Check on it!" Solo snapped, though he was not in an official position to givecommands. "It's urgent."
　　As the deck sergeant and his aide turned and rushed down the corridor, Artooemitted a concerned whistle that rose inquiringly in pitch.
　　"I don't know, Artoo," Threepio answered, stiffly turning his upper torso andhead in Han's direction. "Sir, might I inquire what's going on?"
　　Anger welled up inside Han as he grunted back at the robot, "Go tell yourprecious princess that Luke is dead unless he shows up soon."
　　Artoo began to whistle hysterically at Solo's grim prediction and hisnow-frightened golden partner exclaimed, "Oh, no!"
　　The main tunnel was filled with activity when Han Solo rushed in. he saw apair of Rebel troopers employing all their physical strength to restrain a nervousTauntaun that was trying to break free.
　　From the opposite end, the deck officer rushed into the corridor, his eyes dartingaround the chamber until he had spotted Han. "Sir," he said frantically,"Commander Skywalker hasn't come through the south entrance. He might haveforgotten to check in."
　　"Not likely," Han snapped. "Are the speeders ready?"
　　"Not yet," the deck officer answered. "Adapting them to the cold is provingdifficult. Maybe by morning-"
　　Han cut him off. There wasn't any time to waste on machines that could andprobably would break down. "We'll have to go out on Tauntauns. I'll take sectorfour."
　　"The temperature is falling too rapidly."
　　"You bet it is," Han growled, "and Luke's out in it."
　　The other officer volunteered, "I'll cover sector twelve. Have control set screenalpha."
　　But Han knew there was no time for control to get its surveillance camerasoperating, not with Luke probably dying somewhere on the desolate plains above.He pushed his way through the assemblage of Rebel troops and took the reins of oneof the trained Tauntauns, leaping onto the creature's back.
　　"The night storms will start before any of you can reach the first marker," thedeck officer warned.
　　"Then I'll see you in hell," grunted Han, tugging the reins of his mount andmaneuvering the animal out of the cave.
　　Snow was falling heavily as Han Solo raced his Tauntaun through the wilderness.Night was near and the winds were howling fiercely, piercing his heavy clothes. Heknew that he would be as useless as an icicle to Luke unless he found the youngwarrior soon.
　　The Tauntaun was already feeling the effects of the temperature drop. Not evenits layers of insulating fat or the matted gray fur could protect it from the elementsafter nightfall. Already the beast was wheezing, its breathing becoming increasinglylabored.
　　Han prayed that the snow-lizard wouldn't drop, at least not until he had locatedLuke.
　　He drove his mount harder, forcing it on across the icy plains.
　　Another figure was moving across the snow, its metal body hovering above thefrozen ground.
　　The Imperial Probe Droid paused briefly in mid-flight, its sensors twitching.
　　Then, satisfied with its findings, the robot gently lowered itself, coming to reston the ground. Like spider legs, several probes separated from the metal hull,dislodging some of the snow that had settled there.
　　Something began to take shape around the robot, a pulsating glow that graduallycovered the machine as if with a transparent dome. Quickly this force fieldsolidified, repelling the blowing snow that brushed over the droid's hull.
　　After a moment the glow faded, and the blowing snow soon formed a perfectdome of white, completely concealing the droid and its protective force field.
　　The Tauntaun was racing at maximum speed, certainly too fast considering thedistance it had traveled and the unbearable frigid air. No longer wheezing, it hadbegun moaning pitifully, and its legs were becoming more and more unsteady. Hanfelt sorry about the Tauntaun's pain, but at present the creature's life was onlysecondary to that of his friend Luke.
　　It was becoming difficult for Han to see through the thickening snowfall.Desperate, he searched for some interruption in the eternal plains, some distant spotthat might actually be Luke. But there was nothing to see other than the darkeningexpanses of snow and ice.
　　Yet there was a sound.
　　Han drew the reins in, bringing the Tauntaun to an abrupt halt on the plain.Solo could not be certain, but there seemed to be some sound other than the howlingof the winds that whipped past him. He strained to look in the direction of thesound.
　　Then he spurred his Tauntaun, forcing it to gallop across the snow-swept field.
　　Luke could have been a corpse, food for the scavengers, by the time the light ofdawn returned. But somehow he was still alive, though barely, and struggling to staythat way even with the night storms violently assaulting him. Luke painfully pulledhimself upright from the snow, only to be blasted back down by the freezing gale.As he fell he considered the irony of it all-a farm boy from Tatooine maturing tobattle the Death Star, now perishing alone in a frozen alien wasteland.
　　It took all of Luke's remaining strength to drag himself a half meter beforefinally collapsing, sinking into the ever-deepening drifts. "I can't´" he said, thoughno one could hear his words.
　　But someone, though still unseen, had heard.
　　"You must." The words vibrated in Luke's mind. "Luke, look at me!"
　　Luke could not ignore that command; the power of those softly spoken wordswas too great.
　　With a great effort, Luke lifted his head and saw what he thought was ahallucination. In front of him, apparently unaffected by the cold and still clad onlyin the shabby robes he had worn in the hot desert of Tatooine, stood Ben Kenobi.
　　Luke wanted to call out to him, but he was speechless.
　　The apparition spoke with the same gentle authority Ben had always used withthe young man. "You must survive, Luke."
　　The young commander found the strength to move his lips again. "I'mcold´so cold´"
　　You must go to the Dagobah system," the spectral figure of Ben Kenobiinstructed. "You will learn from Yoda, the Jedi Master, the one who taught me."
　　Luke listened, then reached to touch the ghostly figure. "Ben´Ben´" hegroaned.
　　The figure remained unmoved by Luke's efforts to reach it. "Luke," it spokeagain, "you're our only hope."
　　Our only hope.
　　Luke was confused. Yet before he could gather the strength to ask for anexplanation, the figure began to fade. And when every trace of the apparition hadpassed from his sight, Luke thought he saw the approach of a Tauntaun with a humanrider on its back. The snow-lizard was approaching, its gait unsteady. The riderwas still too far away, too obscured by the storm for identification.
　　In desperation the young Rebel commander called out, "Ben?!" before againdropping off into unconsciousness.
　　The snow-lizard was barely able to stand on its saurian hind legs when Han Soloreined it to a stop and dismounted.
　　Han looked with horror at the snow-covered, almost frozen form lying as if deadat his feet.
　　"Come on, buddy," he appealed to Luke's inert figure, immediately forgetting hisown nearly frozen body, "you aren't dead yet. Give me a signal here."
　　Han could detect no sign of life, and noticed that Luke's face, nearly coveredwith snow, was savagely torn. He rubbed at the youth's face, being careful not totouch the drying wounds. "Don't' do this, Luke. It's not your time."
　　Finally a slight response. A low moan, barely audible over the winds, wasstrong enough to send a warm glow through Han's own shivering body. He grinnedwith relief. "I knew you wouldn't leave me out here all alone! We've got to getyou out of here."
　　Knowing that Luke's salvation-and his own-lay in the speed of the Tauntaun,Han moved toward the beast, carrying the young warrior limply in his arms. Butbefore he could drape the unconscious form over the animal's back, the snow-lizardgave an agonized roar, then fell into a shaggy gray heap on the snow. Laying hiscompanion down, Han rushed to the side of the fallen creature. The Tauntaun madeone final sound, not a roar or bellow but only a sickly rasp. Then the beast wassilent.
　　Solo gripped the Tauntaun's hide, his numbed fingers searching for even theslightest indication of life. "Deader than a Triton moon," he said, knowing that Lukedid not hear a word. "We haven't got much time."
　　Resting Luke's motionless form against the belly of the dead snow-lizard, Hanproceeded to work. It might be something of a sacrilege, he mused, using a JediKnight's favorite weapon like this, but right now Luke's lightsaber was the mostefficient and precise tool to cut through the thick skin of a Tauntaun.
　　At first the weapon felt strange in his hand, but momentarily he was cutting theanimal's carcass from hairy head to scaly hind paws. Han winced at the foul odorthat rose from the steaming incision. There were few things he could remember thatstank like a snow-lizard's innards. Without deliberation he tossed the slipperyentrails into the snow.
　　When the animal's corpse had been entirely eviscerated, Han shoved his friendinside the warm, hair-covered skin. "I know this doesn't smell so good, Luke, butit'll keep you from freezing. I'm sure this Tauntaun wouldn't hesitate if it were theother way around."
　　From the body of the snow-lizard, another blast of entrail-stench rose out of thedisemboweled cavity. "Whew!" Han almost gagged. "It's just as well you're outcold, pal."
　　There wasn't much time left to do what had to be done. Han's freezing handswent to the supply pack strapped to the Tauntaun's back and rummaged through theRebel-issue items until he located the shelter container.
　　Before unpacking it, he spoke into his comlink. "Echo Base, do you copy?"
　　No response.
　　"This comlink is useless!"
　　The sky had darkened ominously and the winds blew violently, making evenbreathing close to impossible. Han fought to open the shelter container and stifflybegan to construct the one piece of Rebel equipment that might protect them both-ifonly for a short while longer.
　　"If I don't get this shelter up fast," he grumbled to himself, "Jabba won't needthose bounty hunters."

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
    

The Empire Strikes Back
III

　　Artoo-Detoo stood just outside the entrance to the secret Rebel ice hangar, dustedwith a layer of snow that had settled over his plug-shaped body. His inner timingmechanisms knew he had waited here a long time and his optical sensor told him thatthe sky was dark. 
　　But the R2 unit was concerned only with his built-in probe-sensors that were stillsending signals across the ice fields. His long and earnest sensor-search for themissing Luke Skywalker and Han Solo had not turned up a thing.
　　The stout droid began beeping nervously when Threepio approached him,plodding stiffly through the snow.
　　"Artoo," the gold-colored robot inclined the upper half of his form at the hipjoints, "there's nothing more you can do. You must come inside." Threepiostraightened to his full height again, simulating a human shiver as the night windshowled past his gleaming hull. "Artoo, my joints are freezing up. Will youhurry´please?´" But before he could finish his own sentence, Threepio washurrying back toward the hangar entrance.
　　Hoth's sky was then entirely black with night, and Princess Leia Organa stoodinside the Rebel base entrance, maintaining a worried vigil. She shivered in thenight wind as she tried to see into the Hoth darkness. Waiting near a deeplyconcerned Major Derlin, her mind was somewhere out on the ice fields.
　　The giant Wookiee sat nearby, his maned head lifting quickly from his hairyhands as the two droids Threepio and Artoo reentered the hangar.
　　Threepio was humanly distraught. "Artoo has not been able to pick up anysignals," he reported, fretting, "although he feels his range is probably too limited tocause us to give up hope." Still, very little confidence could be detected inThreepio's artificial voice.
　　Leia gave the taller droid a nod of acknowledgment, but did not speak. Herthoughts were occupied with the pair of missing heroes. Most disturbing to her wasthat she found her mind focused on one of the two: a dark-haired Corellian whosewords were not always to be taken literally.
　　As the princess kept watch, Major Derlin turned to acknowledge a Rebellieutenant reporting in. "All patrols are now in except Solo and Skywalker, sir."
　　The major looked over at Princess Leia. "Your Highness," he said, his voiceweighty with regret, "nothing more can be done tonight. The temperature isdropping fast. The shield doors must be closed. I'm sorry." Derlin waited amoment, then addressed the lieutenant. "Close the doors."
　　The Rebel officer turned to carry out Derlin's order and immediately thechamber of ice seemed to drop even more in temperature as the mournful Wookieehowled his grief.
　　"The speeders should be ready in the morning," the major said to Leia."They'll make the search easier."
　　Not really expecting an affirmative reply, Leia asked, "Is there any chance oftheir surviving until the morning?"
　　"Slim," Major Derlin answered with grim honesty. "But yes, there's a chance."
　　In response to the major's words, Artoo began to operate the miniaturecomputers inside his barrel-like metal body, taking only moments to juggle numeroussets of mathematical computations, and climaxing his figurings with a series oftriumphant beeps.
　　"Ma'am," Threepio interpreted, "Artoo says the chances against survival areseven hundred twenty-five to one." Then, tilting toward the shorter robot, theprotocol droid grumbled, "Actually, I don't think we needed to know that."
　　No one responded to Threepio's translation. For several prolonged momentsthere was a solemn silence, broken only by the echoing clang of metal slammingagainst metal: the huge doors of the Rebel base were closed for the night. It was asif some heartless deity had officially severed the assembled group from the two menout on the ice plains and had, with a metallic bang, announced their deaths.
　　Chewbacca led out another suffering howl.
　　And a silent prayer, often spoken on an erstwhile world called Alderaan, creptinto Leia's thoughts.
　　The sun that was creeping over Hoth's northern horizon was relatively dim, butits light was enough to shed some warmth on the planet's icy surface. The lightcrawled across the rolling hills of snow, fought to reach the darker recesses of the icygorges, then finally came to rest on what must have been the only perfect whitemound on the entire world.
　　So perfect was the snow-covered mound that it must have owed its existence tosome power other than Nature. Then, as the sky grew steadily brighter, this moundbegan to hum. Anyone observing the mound now would have been startled as thesnow dome seemed to erupt, sending its snowy outer covering skyward in a greatburst of white particles. A droning machine began pulling back its retractable sensorarms, and its awesome bulks slowly rose from its frozen white bed.
　　The probe robot paused briefly in the windy air, then continued on its morningmission across the snow-covered plains.
　　Something else had invaded the morning air of the ice world-a relatively small,snub-nosed craft, with dark cockpit windows and laser guns mounted on each side.The Rebel snowspeeder was heavily armored and designed for warfare near theplanet's surface. But this morning the small craft was on a reconnaissance mission,racing above the expansive white landscape and arcing over the contours of thesnowdrifts.
　　Although the snowspeeder was designed for a two-man crew, Zev was the ship'sonly occupant. His eyes took in a panoramic scan of the desolate stretches below,and he prayed that he would find the objects of his search before he went snow-blind.
　　Presently he heard a low beeping signal.
　　"Echo Base," he shouted jubilantly into his cockpit comlink, "I've got something!Not much, but it could be a sign of life. Sector four-six-one-four by eight-eight0two.I'm closing in."
　　Frantically working the controls of his ship, Zev reduced its speed slightly andbanked the craft over a snowdrift. He welcomed the sudden G-force pressing himagainst his seat and headed the snowspeeder in the direction of the faint signal.
　　As the white infinity of Hoth's terrain streaked under him, the Rebel pilotswitched his comlink to a new frequency. "Echo Three, this is Rogue Two. Doyou copy? Commander Skywalker, this is Rogue Two."
　　The only reply that came through his comlink receiver was static.
　　But then he heard a voice, a very distant-sounding voice, fighting its waythrough the crackling noise. "Nice of you guys to drop by. Hope we didn't get youup too early."
　　Zev welcomed the characteristic cynicism in Han Solo's voice. He switched histransmitter back to the hidden Rebel base. "Echo Base, this is Rogue Two," hereported, his voice suddenly rising in pitch. "I found them. Repeat´"
　　As he spoke, the pilot pulled in a fine-tune fix on the signals winking on hiscockpit monitor screens. Then he further reduced the speed of his craft, bringing itdown close enough to the planet's surface so that he could better see a small objectstanding out against the fleecy plains.
　　The object, a portable Rebel-issue shelter, sat atop a snowdrift. On the shelter'swindward side was a hard-packed layer of white. And resting gingerly against theupper part of the snowdrift was a makeshift radio antenna.
　　But a more welcome sight than any of this was the familiar human figurestanding in front of the snow shelter, frantically waving his arms at the snowspeeder.
　　As Zev dipped his craft for a landing, he felt overwhelmingly grateful that atleast one of the warriors he had been sent out to find was still alive.
　　Only a thick glass window separated the battered, near-frozen body of LukeSkywalker from four of his watchful friends.
　　Han Solo, who appreciated the relative warmth of the Rebel medical center, wasstanding beside Leia, his Wookiee copilot, Artoo-Detoo, and See-Threepio. Hanexhaled with relief. He knew that, despite the grim atmosphere of the chamberenclosing him, the young commander was finally out of danger and in the best ofmechanical hands.
　　Clad only in white shorts, Luke hung in a vertical position inside a transparentcylinder with a combination breath mask and microphone covering his nose andmouth. The surgeon droid, Too-Onebee, was attending to the youth with the skill ofthe finest humanoid doctors. He was aided by his medical assistant droid, FX-7,which looked like nothing more than a metal-capped set of cylinders, wires, andappendages. Gracefully, the surgeon droid worked a switch that brought a gelatinousred fluid pouring down over his human patient. This bacta, Han knew, could workmiracles, even with patients in such dire shape as Luke.
　　As the bubbling slime encapsulated his body, Luke began to thrash about andrave deliriously. "Watch out," he moaned. "´snow creatures.Dangerous´Yoda´go to Yoda´only hope."
　　Han had not the slightest idea what his friend was raving about. Chewbacca,also perplexed by the youth's babbling, expressed himself with an interrogativeWookiee bark.
　　"He doesn't make sense to me either, Chewie," Han replied.
　　Threepio commented hopefully, "I do hope he's all there, if you take mymeaning. It would be most unfortunate if Master Luke were to develop a shortcircuit."
　　"The kid ran into something," Han observed matter-of-factly, "and it wasn't justthe cold."
　　"It's those creatures he keeps talking about," Leia said, looking at the grimlystaring Solo. "We've doubled the security, Han," she began, tentatively trying tothank him, "I don't know how-"
　　"Forget it," he said brusquely. Right now he was concerned only with hisfriend in the red bacta fluid.
　　Luke's body sloshed through the brightly colored substance, the bacta's healingproperties by now taking effect. For a while it appeared as if Luke were trying toresist the curative flow of the translucent muck. Then, at last, he gave up hismumbling and relaxed, succumbing to the bacta's powers.
　　Too-Onebee turned away from the human who had been entrusted to his care.He angled his skull-shaped head to gaze at Han and the others through the window."Commander Skywalker has been in dormo-shock but is responding well to thebacta," the robot announced, his commanding, authoritative voice heard distinctlythough the glass. "He is now out of danger."
　　The surgeon robot's words immediately wiped away the tension that had seizedthe group on the other side of the window. Leia sighed in relief, and Chewbaccagrunted his approval of Too-Onebee's treatment.
　　Luke had no way of estimating how long he had been delirious. But now hewas in full command of his mind and senses. He sat up on his bed in the Rebelmedical center. What a relief, he thought, to be breathing real air again, howevercold it might be.
　　A medical droid was removing the protective pad from his healing face. Hiseyes were uncovered and he was beginning to perceive the face of someone standingby his bed. Gradually Threepio smiling image of Princess Leia came into focus.She gracefully moved toward him and gently brushed his hair out of his eyes.
　　"The bacta are growing well," she said as she looked at his healing wounds."The scars should be gone in a day or so. Does it still hurt you?"
　　Across the room, the door banged open. Artoo beeped in a cheerful greeting ashe rolled toward Luke, and Threepio clanked noisily toward Luke's bed. "MasterLuke, it's good to see you functional again."
　　"Thanks, Threepio."
　　Artoo emitted a series of happy beeps and whistles.
　　"Artoo expresses his relief also," Threepio translated helpfully.
　　Luke was certainly grateful for the robots' concern. But before he could replyto either of the droids, he met with yet another interruption.
　　"Hi, kid," Han Solo greeted him boisterously as he and Chewbacca burst into themedical center.
　　The Wookiee growled a friendly greeting.
　　"You look strong enough to wrestle a Gundark," Han observed.
　　Luke felt that strong, and felt grateful to his friend. "Thanks to you."
　　"That's two you owe me, junior." Han gave the princess a wide, devilish grin."Well, Your Worship," he said mockingly, "it looks like you arranged to keep meclose by for a while longer."
　　"I had nothing to do with it," Leia said hotly, annoyed at Han's vanity."General Rieekan thinks it's dangerous for any ships to leave the system until thegenerators are operational."
　　"That makes a good story. But I think you just can't bear to let me out of yoursight."
　　"I don't know where you get your delusions, laser brains," she retorted.
　　Chewbacca amused by this verbal battle between two of the strongest humanwills he had ever encountered, let out a roaring Wookiee laugh.
　　"Laugh it up, fuzz ball," Han said good-naturedly. "You didn't see us alone inthe south passage."
　　Until now, Luke had scarcely listened to this lively exchange. Han and theprincess had argued frequently enough in the past. But that reference to the southpassage sparked his curiosity, and he looked at Leia for an explanation.
　　"She expressed her true feeling for me," Han continued, delighting in the rosyflush that appeared on the princess's cheeks. "Come on, Your Highness, you'vealready forgotten."
　　"Why, you low-down, stuck-up, half-witted, scruffy-looking nerf-herder´" shesputtered in fury.
　　"Who's scruffy-looking?" he grinned. "I tell ya, sweetheart, I must've hitpretty close to the mark to get you hoppin' like this. Doesn't it look that way to you,Luke?"
　　"Yeah," he said, staring at the princess incredulously, "it does´kind of."
　　Leia looked over at Luke with a strange mixture of emotions showing on herflushed face. Something vulnerable, almost childlike, was reflected in her eyes for amoment. And then the tough mask fell again.
　　"Oh, it does, does it?" she said. "Well, I guess you don't understand everythingabout women, do you?"
　　Luke agreed silently. He agreed even more when in the next moment Leialeaned over and kissed him firmly on the lips. Then she turned on her heel andmarched across the room, slamming the door behind her. Everyone in theroom-human, Wookiee, and droid-looked at one another, speechless.
　　In the distance, a warning alarm blared through the subterranean corridors.
　　General Rieekan and his head controller were conferring in the Revel commandcenter when Han Solo and Chewbacca burst into the room. Princess Leia andThreepio, who had been listening to the general and his officer, turned in anticipationat their approach.
　　A warning signal blared across the chamber from the huge console locatedbehind Rieekan and monitored by Rebel control officers.
　　"General," the sensor controller called.
　　Grimly attentive, General Rieekan watched the console screens. Suddenly hesaw a flashing signal that had not been there a moment before. "Princess," he said,"I think we have a visitor."
　　Leia, Han, Chewbacca, and Threepio gathered around the general and watchedthe beeping monitor screens.
　　"We've picked up something outside the base in Zone Twelve. It's movingeast," said Rieekan.
　　"Whatever it is, it's metal," the sensor controller observed.
　　Leia's eyes widened in surprise. "Then it can't be one of those creatures thatattacked Luke?"
　　"Could it be ours?" Han asked. "A speeder?"
　　The sensor controller shook his head. "No, there's no signal." Then came asound from another monitor. "Wait, something very weak´"
　　Walking as rapidly as his stiff joints allowed, Threepio approached the console.His auditory sensors turned in the strange signals. "I must say, sir, I'm fluent in oversixty million forms of communication, but this is something new. Must be in a codeor-"
　　Just then the voice of a Rebel trooper cut in through the console's comlinkspeaker. "This is Echo Station Three-Eight. Unidentified object is in our scope.It's just over the ridge. We should have visual contact in about-" Withoutwarning the voice filled with fear. "What the-? Oh, no!"
　　A burst of radio static followed, then the transmission broke off completely.
　　Han frowned. "Whatever it is," he said, "it isn't friendly. Let's have a look.Come on, Chewie."
　　Even before Han and Chewbacca were out of the chamber, General Rieekan haddispatched Rogues Ten and Eleven to Station Three-Eight.
　　The mammoth Imperial Star Destroyer occupied a position of deadly prominencein the Emperor's fleet. The sleekly elongated ship was larger and even moreominous than the five wedge-shaped Imperial Star Destroyers guarding it. Togetherthese six cruisers were the most dreaded and devastating warships in the galaxy,capable of reducing to cosmic scrap anything that stayed too close to their weapons.
　　Flanking the Star Destroyers were a number of smaller fighter ships and, dartingabout this great space armada, were the infamous TIE fighters.
　　Supreme confidence reigned in the heart of every crew member in this Imperialdeath squadron, especially among the personnel on the monstrous central StarDestroyer. But something also blazed within their souls. Fear-fear of merely thesound of the familiar heavy footsteps as they echoed through the enormous ship.Crew members dreaded these footfalls and shuddered whenever they were heardapproaching, brining their much feared, but much respected leader.
　　Towering above them in his black cloak and concealing black headgear, DarthVader, Dark Lord of Sith, entered the main control deck, and the men around him fellsilent. In what seemed to be an endless moment, no sound except those from theship's control boards and the loud wheezes coming from the ebony figure's metalbreath screen were to be heard.
　　As Darth Vader watched the endless array of stars, Captain Piett rushed acrossthe wide bridge of the ship, carrying a message for the squat, evil-looking AdmiralOzzel, who was stationed on the bridge. "I think we've found something, Admiral,"he announced nervously, looking from Ozzel to the Dark Lord.
　　"Yes, Captain?" The admiral was a supremely confident man who felt relaxedin the presence of his cloaked superior.
　　"The report we have is only a fragment, from a probe droid in the Hoth system.But it's the best lead we've had in-"
　　"We have had thousands of probe droids searching the galaxy," Ozzel broke inangrily. "I want proof, not leads. I don't intend to continue to chase around fromone side of-"
　　Abruptly the figure in black approached the two and interrupted. "You foundsomething?" he asked, his voice somewhat distorted by the breath mask.
　　Captain Piett respectfully gazed at his master, who loomed above him like ablack-robed, omnipotent god. "Yes, sir," Piett said slowly, choosing his words withcaution. "We have visuals. The system is supposed to be devoid of humanforms´"
　　But Vader was no longer listening to the captain. His masked face turnedtoward an image beamed on one of the viewscreens-an image of a small squadron ofRebel snowspeeders streaking above the white fields.
　　"That's it," Darth Vader boomed without further deliberation.
　　"My lord," Admiral Ozzel protested, "there are so many uncharted settlements.It could be smugglers-"
　　"That is the one!" the former Jedi Knight insisted, clenching a black-gloved fist."And Skywalker is with them. Bring in the patrol ships, Admiral, and set yourcourse for the Hoth system." Vader looked toward an officer wearing a green uniformwith matching cap. "General Veers," the Dark Lord addressed him, "prepare yourmen."
　　As soon as Darth Vader had spoken, his men set about to launch his fearful plan.
　　The Imperial Probe Droid raised a large antenna from its buglike head and sentout a piercing, high-frequency signal. The robot's scanners had reacted to a lifeformhidden behind a great dune of snow and noted the appearance of a brown Wookieehead and the sound of a deep-throated growl. The blasters that had been built intothe probe robot took aim at the furry giant. But before the robot had a chance to fire,a red beam from a hand blaster exploded from behind the Imperial Probe Droid andnicked its darkly finished hull.
　　As he ducked behind a large snow dune, Han Solo noticed Chewbacca stillhidden, and then watched the robot spun around in midair to face him. So far theruse was working and now he was the target. Han had barely moved out of range asthe floating machine fired, blasting chunks of snow from the edge of his dune. Hefired again, hitting it square on with the beam of his weapon. Then he heard ahigh-pitched whine coming from the deadly machine, and in an instant the ImperialProbe Droid burst into a billion or more flaming pieces.
　　"´I'm afraid there's not much left,: Han said over the comlink as he concludedhis report to the underground base.
　　Princess Leia and General Rieekan were still manning the console where theyhad maintained constant communication with Han. "What is it?" Leia asked.
　　"Droid of some kind," he answered. "I didn't hit it that hard. It must have hada self-destruct."
　　Leia paused as she considered this unwelcome piece of information. "AnImperial droid," she said, betraying some trepidation.
　　"If it was," Han warned, "the Empire surely knows we're here."
　　General Rieekan shook his head slowly. "We'd better start to evacuate theplanet."

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
    

The Empire Strikes Back
IV

　　Six ominous shapes appeared in the black space of the Hoth system and loomed likevast demons of destruction, ready to unleash the furies of their Imperial weapons.Inside the largest of the six Imperial Star Destroyer, Darth Vader sat alone in a smallspherical room. A single shaft of light gleamed on his black helmet as he satmotionless in his raised meditation chamber.
　　As General Veers approached, the sphere opened slowly, the upper half liftinglike a jagged-toothed mechanical jaw. To Veers, the dark figure seated inside themouthlike cocoon hardly seemed alive, though a powerful aura of sheer evil emanatedfrom him, sending a chilling fear through the officer.
　　Uncertain of his own courage, Veers took a step forward. He had a message todeliver but felt prepared to wait for hours if necessary rather than disturb Vader'smeditation.
　　But Vader spoke immediately. "What is it, Veers?"
　　"My lord," the general replied, choosing each word with care, "the fleet hasmoved out of light-speed. Com-Scan has detected an energy field protecting an areaof the sixth planet in the Hoth system. The field is strong enough to deflect anybombardment."
　　Vader stood, rising to his full two-meter height, his cloak swaying against thefloor. "So, the Rebel scum are alerted to our presence." Furious, he clenched hisblack-gloved hands into fists. "Admiral Ozzel came out of light-speed too close tothe system."
　　"He felt surprise was a wiser-"
　　"He's as clumsy as he is stupid," Vader cut in, breathing heavily. "A cleanbombardment is impossible through their energy field. Prepare your troops for asurface attack."
　　With military precision, General Veers turned and marched out of the meditationroom, leaving behind an enraged Darth Vader. Alone in the chamber, Vaderactivated a large viewscreen that showed a brightly lit image of his Star Destroyer'svast bridge.
　　Admiral Ozzel, responding to Vader's summons, stepped forward, his facealmost filling the Dark Lord's monitor screen. There was trepidation in Ozzel'svoice when he announced, "Lord Vader, the fleet has moved out of light-speed-"
　　But Vader's reply was addressed to the officer standing slightly behind Ozzel."Captain Piett."
　　Knowing better than to delay, Captain Piett stepped forward instantly as theadmiral staggered back a step, his hand automatically reaching for his throat.
　　"Yes, my lord," Piett answered respectfully.
　　Ozzel began to gag now as his throat, as if in the grip of invisible talons, beganto constrict.
　　"Make ready to land assault troops beyond the energy field," Vader ordered."Then deploy the fleet so that nothing can get off that planet. You're in commandnow, Admiral Piett."
　　Piett was simultaneously pleased and unsettled by this news. As he turned tocarry out the orders, he saw a figure that might someday be himself. Ozzel's facewas hideously contorted as he fought for one final breath of air; then he dropped intoa dead heap on the floor.
　　The Empire had entered the system of Hoth.
　　Rebel troops rushed to their alert stations as the warning alarms wailed throughthe ice tunnels. Ground crews and droids of all sizes and makes hurried to performtheir assigned duties, responding efficiently to the impending Imperial threat.
　　The armored snowspeeders were fueled as they waited in attack formation toblast out of the main cavern entranceway. Meanwhile, in the hangar, Princess Leiawas addressing a small band of Rebel fighter pilots. "The large transport ship willleave as soon as they're loaded. Only two fighter escorts per ship. The energyshield can only be opened for a split second, so you'll have to stay very close to thetransports."
　　Hobbie, a Rebel veteran of many battles, looked at the princess with concern."Two fighters against a Star Destroyer?"
　　"The ion cannon will fire several blasts which should destroy any ships in yourflight path," Leia explained. "When you clear the energy shield, you will proceed tothe rendezvous point. Good luck."
　　Somewhat reassured, Hobbie and the other pilots raced toward their fightercockpits.
　　Meanwhile, Han was working frantically to complete welding a lifter on theMillennium Falcon. Finishing quickly, he hopped to the hangar floor and switchedon his comlink. "All right, Chewie," he said to the hairy figure seated at theFalcon's controls, "give it a try."
　　Just then Leia walked past, throwing him an angry look. Han looked at hersmugly while the freighter's lifters began to rise off the floor, whereupon the rightlifter began to shake erratically, then broke partially loose to swing back down againwith an embarrassing crash.
　　He turned away from Leia, catching only a glimpse of her face as she mockinglyraised an eyebrow.
　　"Hold it, Chewie," Han grunted into his small transmitter.
　　The Avenger, one of the Imperial armada's wedge-like Star Destroyers, hoveredlike a mechanized death angel in the sea of stars outside the Hoth system. As thecolossal ship began to move closer to the ice world, the planet became clearly visiblethrough the windows which stretched 100 meters or more across the huge bridge ofthe warship.
　　Captain Needa, commander of the Avenger's crew gazed out a main port, lookingat the planet when a controller came up to him. "Sir, Rebel ship coming into oursector."
　　"Good," Needa replied with a gleam in his eyes. "Our first catch of the day."
　　"Their first target will be the power generators," General Rieekan told theprincess.
　　"First transport Three Zone approaching shield," one of the Rebel controllerssaid, tracking a bright image that could only be an Imperial Star Destroyer.
　　"Prepare to open shield," a radarman ordered.
　　"Stand by, Ion Control," another controller said.
　　A giant metal globe on Hoth's icy surface rotated into position and angled itsgreat turret gun upward.
　　"Fire!" came the order from General Rieekan.
　　Suddenly two red beams of destructive energy were released into the cold skies.The beams almost immediately overtook the first of the racing Rebel transport craft,and sped on a direct course toward the huge Star Destroyer.
　　The twin red bolts struck the enormous ship and blasted its conning tower.Explosions set off by the blast began to rock the great flying fortress, spinning it outof control. The Star Destroyer plunged into deep space as the Rebel transport and itstwo fighter escorts streaked off to safety.
　　Luke Skywalker, preparing to depart, pulled on his heavy-weather gear andwatched the pilots, gunners, and R2 units hurrying to complete their tasks. Hestarted toward the row of snowspeeders that awaited him. On his way, the youngcommander paused at the tail section of the Millennium Falcon, where Han Solo andChewbacca were working frenetically on the right lifter.
　　"Chewie," Luke called, "take care of yourself. And watch over this guy, willya?"
　　The Wookie barked a farewell, gave Luke a big hug, then turned back to hiswork on the lifters.
　　The two friends, Luke and Han, stood looking at each other, perhaps for the lasttime.
　　"I hope you make your peace with Jabba," Luke said at last.
　　"Give 'em hell, kid," the Corellian responded lightly.
　　The young commander began to walk away as memories of exploits shared withHan rushed to his mind. He stopped and looked back the Falcon, and saw his friendstill staring after him. As they gazed at each other for a brief moment, Chewbaccalooked up and knew that each was wishing the other the best, wherever theirindividual fates might take them.
　　The public address system broke in on their thoughts. "First transport is clear,"a Rebel announcer proclaimed the good news.
　　At the announcement, a cheer burst from those gathered in the hangar. Luketurned and hurried over to his snowspeeder. When he reached it, Dack, hisfresh-faced young gunner, was standing outside the ship waiting for him.
　　"How are you feeling, sir?" Dack asked enthusiastically.
　　"Like new, Dack. How about you?"
　　Dack beamed. "Right now I feel like I could take on the whole Empiremyself."
　　"Yeah," Luke said quietly, "I know what you mean." Though there were only afew years between them, at that moment Luke felt centuries older.
　　Princess Leia's voice came over the address system: "Attention, speederpilot´on the withdrawal signal assemble at South Slope. Your fighters are beingprepared for takeoff. Code One Five will be transmitted when evacuation iscomplete."
　　Threepio and Artoo stood amid the rapidly moving personnel as the pilotsreadied for departure. The golden droid tilted slightly as he turned his sensors on thelittle R2 robot. The shadows playing over Threepio's face gave the illusion that hisface-plate had lengthened into a frown. "Why is it," he asked, "when things seem toget settled, everything falls apart?" Leaning forward, he gently patted the otherdroid's hull. "Take good care of Master Luke. And take good care of yourself."
　　Artoo whistled and tooted a good-bye, then turned to roll down the ice corridor.Waving stiffly, Threepio watched as his stout and faithful friend moved away.
　　To an observer, it may have seemed that Threepio grew misty-eyed, but then itwasn't the first time he had gotten a drop of oil clogged before his optical sensors.
　　Finally turning, the human-shaped robot moved off in the opposite direction.

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
    

The Empire Strikes Back
V

　　 No one on Hoth heard the sound. At first, it was simply too distant to carry abovethe whining winds. Besides, the Rebel troopers, fighting the cold as they preparedfor battle, were too busy to really listen. 
　　In the snow trenches, Rebel officers screamed out their orders to makethemselves heard above the gale-force winds. Troopers hurried to carry out theircommands, running through the snow with heavy bazookalike weapons on theirshoulders, and lodging those death rays along the icy rims of the trenches.
　　The Rebel power generators near the gun towers began popping, buzzing, andcrackling with deafening bursts of electrical power-enough to supply the vastunderground complex. But above all this activity and noise a strange sound could beheard, an ominous thumping that was coming nearer and was beginning to shake thefrozen ground. When it was close enough to attract the attention of an officer, hestrained to see through the storm, looking for the source of the heavy, rhythmicpounding. Other men looked up from their work and saw what looked like a numberof moving specks. Through the blizzard, the small dots seemed to be advancing at aslow yet steady pace, churning up clouds of snow as they moved toward the Rebelbase.
　　The officer raised his electrobinoculars and focused on the approaching objects.There must have been dozen of them resolutely advancing through the snow, lookinglike creatures out of some uncharted past. But they were machines, each of themstalking like enormous ungulates on four jointed legs.
　　Walkers!
　　With a shock of recognition, the officer identified the Empire's All TerrainArmored Transports. Each machine was formidably armed with cannons placed onits foreside like the horns of some prehistoric beast. Moving like mechanizedpachyderms, the walkers emitted deadly fire from their turnstile guns and cannons.
　　The officer grabbed his comlink. "Rogue Leader´Incoming! Point ZeroThree,"
　　"Echo Station Five-Seven, we're on our way."
　　Even as Luke Skywalker replied, an explosion sprayed ice and snow around theofficer and his terror-struck men. The walkers already had them within range. Thetroopers knew their job was to divert attention while the transport ships were launched,but none of the Rebel soldiers was prepared to die under the feet or weapons of thesehorrible machines.
　　Brilliant billows of orange and yellow flames exploded from the walker guns.Nervously the Rebel troopers aimed their weapons at the walkers, each soldier feelingicy, unseen fingers pierce his body.
　　Of the twelve snowspeeders, four took the lead, soaring at full throttle as theymoved toward the enemy. One All Terrain Armored Transport machine fired, barelymissing the banking craft. A burst of gunfire blew another speeder into a ball offlaming oblivion that lit up the sky.
　　Luke saw the explosion of his squadron's first casualty as he looked from hiscockpit window. Angrily, Luke fired his ship's guns at a walker, only to receive ahail of Imperial fire power that shook his speeder in a barrage of flak.
　　Regaining control of his ship, Luke was joined by another snowspeeder, RogueThree. They swarmed like insects around the relentlessly stomping walkers, as otherspeeders continued to exchange fire with the Imperial assault machines. RogueLeader and Rogue Three flitted alongside the lead walker, then moved away fromeach other, both banking to the right.
　　Luke saw the horizon tilt as he maneuvered his speeder between the walker'sjointed legs and soared out from under the monster machine. Bringing his speederback to horizontal flight, the young commander contacted his companion ship."Rogue Leader to Rogue Three."
　　"Copy, Rogue Leader," acknowledged Wedge, the pilot of Rogue Three.
　　"Wedge," Luke called into his comlink, "split your squad into pairs." Luke'ssnowspeeder then banked and turned, while Wedge's ship moved off in the oppositedirection with another Rebel craft.
　　The walkers, firing all cannons, continued their march across the snow. Insideone of the assault machines two Imperial pilots had spotted the Rebel guns,conspicuous against the white field. The pilots began to maneuver the walkertoward the guns when they noticed a lone snowspeeder making a reckless chargedirectly toward their main viewport, guns blazing. A huge explosion flashed outsidethe impenetrable window and dissipated as the snowspeeder, roaring through thesmoke, disappeared overhead.
　　As Luke soared up and away from the walker, he looked back. That armor istoo strong for blasters, he thought. There must be some other way of attacking thesehorrors; something other than fire power. For a moment Luke thought of some ofthe simple tactics a farm boy might employ against a wild beast. Then, turning hissnowspeeder for yet another run against the walkers, he made a decision.
　　"Rogue group," he called into his comlink, "use your harpoons and tow cables.Go for the legs. It's our only hope of stopping them. Hobbie, are you still withme?"
　　The reassuring voice immediately responded. "Yes, sir."
　　"Well, stick close now."
　　As he leveled his ship, Luke was grimly determined to glide in tight formationwith Hobbie. Together they veered, dropping nearer Hoth's surface.
　　In Luke's cockpit, his gunner, Dack, was jostled by the abrupt movement of thecraft. Trying to keep his grip on the Rebel harpoon gun in his hand, he shouted,"Whoea! Luke, I can't seem to find my restraints."
　　Explosions rocked Luke's ship, tossing it about violently in the enveloping flak.Through the window he could see another walker that appeared to be unaffected bythe full fire power of the Rebel attack speeders. This lumbering machine nowbecame Luke's target as he flew, moving in a descending arc. The walker was firingdirectly at him, creating a wall of laser bolts and flak.
　　"Just hang on, Dack," he yelled over the explosions, "and get ready to fire thattow cable!"
　　Another great blast shook Luke's snowspeeder. He fought to regain control asthe ship wobbled in its flight. Luke began to sweat profusely, despite the cold, as hedesperately attempted to right his plunging ship. But the horizon still spun in frontof him.
　　"Stand by, Dack. We're almost there. Are you okay?"
　　Dack didn't answer. Luke managed to turn and saw that Hobbie's speeder wasmaintaining its course next to him as they evaded the explosions bursting around them.He craned his head around and saw Dack, blood streaming from his forehead slumpedagainst the controls.
　　"Dack!"
　　On the ground, the gun towers near the Rebel power generators blasted away atthe walking Imperial machines, but with no apparent effect. Imperial weaponsbombarded the area all around them, blasting the snow skyward, almost blinding theirhuman targets with the continuous onslaught. The officer who had first seen theincredible machines and fought alongside his men, was one of the first to be cut downby a walker's body-ripping rays. Troops rushed to his aid, but couldn't save him;too much of his blood had already spilled, making a scarlet stain against the snow.
　　More Rebel fire power blasted from one of the dishlike guns that had beenerected near the power generators. Despite these tremendous explosions, thewalkers continued to march. Another speeder made a heroic dive between a pair ofthe walkers, only to be caught by fire from one of the machines that exploded it into agreat ball of rippling flames.
　　The surface explosions made the walls of the ice hangar tremble, causing deepcracks to spread.
　　Han Solo and Chewbacca were working frantically to complete their welding job.As they worked, it became obvious that the widening cracks would soon bring theentire ice ceiling smashing down upon them.
　　"First chance we get," Han said, "we're giving this crate a complete overhaul.But he knew that first he would have to get the Millennium Falcon out of this whitehell.
　　Even as he and the Wookiee labored on the ship, enormous pieces of ice, brokenloose by the explosions, came tumbling down throughout the underground base.Princess Leia moved quickly, trying to avoid the falling frozen chunks, as she soughtshelter in the Rebel command center.
　　"I'm not sure we can protect two transports at a time," General Rieekan told heras she entered the chamber.
　　"It's risky," she answered, "but our holding action is faltering." Leia realizedthat the transport launchings were taking too much time and that the procedure had tobe hastened.
　　Rieekan issued a command through his comlink. "Launch patrol, proceed withaccelerated departures´"
　　As the general gave his order, Leia looked toward an aide and said, "Beginclearing the remaining ground stuff." But she knew that their escape dependedcompletely on Rebel success in the on-going battle above.
　　Inside the cold and cramped cockpit of the lead Imperial walker, General Veersmoved between his snow-suited pilots. "What is the distance to the powergenerators?"
　　Without looking away from the control panel, one of the pilots replied,"Six-four-one."
　　Satisfied, General Veers reached for an electrotelescope and peered through theviewfinder to focus on the bullet-shaped power generators and the Rebel soldiersfighting to save them. Suddenly the walker began to rock violently under a barrageof Rebel gunfire. As he was propelled backward, Veers saw his pilot scramblingover the controls to keep the machine from toppling over.
　　The Rogue Three snowspeeder had just attacked the lead walker. Its pilot,Wedge, hooted with a loud Rebel shout of victory as he saw the damage his guns hadcaused.
　　Other snowspeeders passed Wedge, racing in the opposite direction. He steeredhis craft on a direct course toward another walking death machine. As heapproached the monster, Wedge shouted to his gunner, "Activate harpoon.!"
　　The gunner pressed the firing switch as his pilot daringly maneuvered their craftthrough the walker's legs. Immediately the harpoon whooshed from the rear of thespeeder, a long length of cable unwinding behind it.
　　"Cable out!" the gunner yelled. "Let her go!"
　　Wedge saw the harpoon plunge into one of the metal legs, the cable stillconnected to his snowspeeder. He checked his controls, then brought the speederaround in front of the Imperial machine. Making an abrupt turn, Wedge guided hisship around one of the hind legs, the cable banding around it like a metallic lariat.
　　So far, thought Wedge, Luke's plan was working. Now all he had to do was flyhis speeder around to the tail end of the walker. Wedge caught a glimpse of RogueLeader as he carried out the maneuver.
　　"Cable out!" shouted the speeder's gunner again as Wedge flew their craftalongside the cable-entangled walker, close to the metal hull. Wedge's gunnerdepressed another switch and released the cable from the rear of the snowspeeder.
　　The speeder zoomed away and Wedge laughed as he looked down at the resultsof their efforts. The walker was awkwardly struggling to continue on its way, but theRebel cable had completely entangled its legs. Finally it leaned to one side andcrashed against the ground, its impact stirring up a cloud of ice and snow.
　　"Rogue Leader´One down, Luke," Wedge announced to the pilot of hiscompanion speeder.
　　"I see it, Wedge," Commander Skywalker answered. "Good work."
　　In the trenches, Rebel troops cheered in triumph when they saw the assaultmachine topple. An officer leaped from his snow trench and signaled his men.Bolting out of the trench, he led his troopers in a boisterous charge against the fallenwalker, reaching the great metallic hulk before a single Imperial soldier could pullhimself free.
　　The Rebels were about to enter the walker when it suddenly exploded fromwithin, hurtling great jagged chunks of torn metal at them, the impact of the blastflinging the stunned troops back against the snow.
　　Luke and Zev could see the destruction of the walker as they flew overhead,banking from right to left to avoid the flak bursting around them. When they finallyleveled off, their craft were shaken by explosions from the walker's cannons.
　　"Steady, Rogue Two," Luke said, looking over at the snowspeeder flying parallelto his own ship. "Set harpoon. I'll cover for you."
　　But there was another explosion, this one damaging the front section of Zev'sship. The pilot could barely see through the engulfing cloud of smoke that foggedhis windshield. He fought to keep his ship on a horizontal path, but more blasts bythe enemy made it rock violently.
　　His view had become so obscured that it wasn't until Zev was directly in the lineof fire that he saw the massive image of another Imperial walker. Rogue Two's pilotfelt an instant of pain; then his snub-nosed craft, spewing smoke and hurtling on acollision course with the walker, suddenly erupted in flames amid a burst of cannonfire. Very little of Zev or his ship remained to hit the ground.
　　Luke saw the disintegration and was sickened by the loss of yet another friend.But he couldn't let himself dwell on his grief, especially now when so many otherlives depended on his steady leadership.
　　He looked around desperately, then spoke into his comlink."Wedge´Wedge´Rogue Three. Set your harpoon and follow me on the nextpass."
　　As he spoke, Luke was hit hard by a terrific explosion that ripped through hisspeeder. He struggled with the controls in a futile attempt to keep the small craftunder control. A chill of fear swept over him when he noticed the dense twistingfunnel of black smoke pouring from his ship's aft section. He realized then thatthere was no way his damaged speeder could remain aloft. And, to make matterseven worse, a walker loomed directly in his path.
　　Luke struggled with the controls as his ship plunged toward the ground, leaving atrail of smoke and flames behind. By then the heat in the cockpit was nearlyunbearable. Flames were beginning to leap about inside the speeder and werecoming uncomfortably close to Luke. He finally brought his ship down to skid andcrash into the snow just a few meters away from one of the walking Imperialmachines.
　　After impact, Luke struggled to pull himself from the cockpit and looked withhorror at the looming figure of the approaching walker.
　　Gathering all his strength, Luke quickly squeezed himself from under the twistedmetal of the control board and moved up against the top of his cockpit. Somehow hemanaged to open the hatch halfway and climbed out of the ship. With eachelephantine step of the oncoming walker, the speeder shook violently. Luke had notrealized just how enormous these four-legged horrors were until, unprotected by theshelter of his craft, he saw one up close.
　　Then he remembered Dack and returned to try to pull his friend's lifeless formfrom the wrecked speeder. But Luke had to give up. The body was too tightlywedged in the cockpit, and the walker was now almost upon him. Braving theflames, Luke reached into his speeder and grabbed the harpoon gun.
　　He gazed at the advancing mechanical behemoth and suddenly had an idea. Hereached back inside the cockpit of the speeder and groped for a land mine attached tothe ship's interior. With a great effort he stretched his fingers and firmly grasped themine.
　　Luke leaped away from his vehicle just as the towering machine lifted a massivefoot and planted it firmly on the snowspeeder, crushing it flat.
　　Luke crouched underneath the walker, moving with it to avoid its slow steps.Raising his head, he felt the cold wind slap against his face as he studied themonster's vast underbelly.
　　As he ran along under the machine, Luke aimed his harpoon gun and fired. Apowerful magnet attached to a long thin cable was ejected from the gun and firmlyattached itself to the machine's underbelly.
　　Still running, Luke tanked on the cable, testing to make sure its strength wassufficient to sustain his weight. Then he attached the cable drum to the buckle of hisutility belt, allowing its mechanism to pull him up off the ground. Now, danglingfrom the monster's underbelly, Luke could see the remaining walkers and two Rebelsnowspeeders continuing the battle as they soared through fiery explosions.
　　He climbed up to the machine's hull where he had observed a small hatch.Quickly cutting it open with his laser sword, Luke pulled open the hatch, threw in theland mine, and made a rapid descent along the cable. As he reached the end Lukedropped hard onto the snow and became unconscious: his inert body was nearlybrushed by one of the walker's hind fee.
　　As the walker passed over and away from him, a muffled explosion tore at itsinsides. Suddenly the tremendous bulk of the mechanical beast exploded at theseams, machinery and pieces of hull flying in every direction. The Imperial assaultmachine crumbled into a smoking, motionless heap coming to rest upon whatremained of its four stiltlike legs.

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
    

The Empire Strikes Back
VI

　　The Rebel command center, its walls and ceiling still shaking and cracking under theforce of the battle on the surface, was attempting to operate amid the destruction.Pipes, torn apart by the blasting, belched sprays of scalding stem. The white floorwere littered with broken pieces of machinery and chunks of ice were scatteredeverywhere. Except for the distant rumbling of laser fire, the command center wasforebodingly quiet. 
　　There were still Rebel personnel on duty, including Princess Leia, who watchedthe images on the few still-functioning console screens. She wanted to be certainthat the last of the transport ships had slipped past the Imperial armada and wereapproaching their rendezvous point in space.
　　Han Solo rushed into the command center, dodging great sections of the iceceiling that came plunging down at him. One great chunk was followed by anavalanche of ice that poured onto the floor near the entrance to the chamber.Undaunted, Han hurried to the control board where Leia stood beside See-Threepio.
　　"I heard the command center was hit." Han appeared concerned. "Are you allright?"
　　The princess nodded. She was surprised to see him there where the danger wasseverest.
　　"Come on," he urged before she could reply. "You've got to get to your ship."
　　Leia looked exhausted. She had been standing at the console viewscreens forhours and had participated in dispatching Rebel personnel to their posts. Taking herhand, Han led her from the chamber, with the protocol droid clacking after them.
　　As they left, Leia gave one final order to the controller. "Give the evacuationcode signal´and get to the transport."
　　Then, as Leia, Han, and Threepio made their hasty exit from the command center,a voice blared from the public address speakers, echoing in the nearby deserted icecorridors. "Disengage, disengage! Begin retreat action!"
　　"Come, on," Han urged, grimacing. "If you don't get there fast, your shipwon't be able to take off."
　　The walls quaked even more violently than before. Ice chunks continued to fallthroughout the underground base as the three hurried toward the transport ships.They had nearly reached the hangar where Leia's transport ship was waiting, ready fordeparture. But as they neared the corner they found the entrance to the hangarcompletely blocked by ice and snow.
　　Han knew they would have to find some other route to Leia's escape ship-andquickly. He began to lead them back down the corridor, careful to avoid falling ice,and snapped on his comlink as they hurried toward the ship. "Transport C OneSeven!" he yelled into the small microphone. "We're coming! Hold on!"
　　They were close enough to the hangar to hear Leia's escape vessel preparing forlift-off from the Rebel ice base. If he could lead them safely just a few meters more,the princess would be safe and-
　　The chamber suddenly quaked with a terrible noise that thundered through theunderground base. In an instant the entire ceiling had crashed down in front of them,creating a solid barrier of ice between them and the hangar docks. They stared inshock at the dense white mass.
　　"We're cut off," Han yelled into his comlink, knowing that if the transport wereto make good its escape there could be no time wasted in melting down or blastingthrough the barricade. "You'll have to take off without Princess Organa." Heturned to her. "If we're lucky we can still make it to the Falcon."
　　The princess and See-Threepio followed as Han dashed toward another chamber,hoping that the Millennium Falcon and his Wookiee copilot had not already beenburied under an avalanche of ice.
　　Looking out across the white battlefield, the Rebel officer watched the remainingsnowspeeders whisking through the air and the last of the Imperial vehicles as theypassed the wreckage of the exploded walker. He flipped on his comlink and heardthe order to retreat: "Disengage, disengage. Begin retreat action." As he signaledhis men to move back inside the ice cavern, he noticed that the lead walker was stilltreading heavily in the direction of the power generators.
　　In the cockpit of that assault machine, General Veers stepped close to the port.From this position he could clearly see the target below. He studied the cracklingpower generators and observed the Rebel troops defending them.
　　"Point-three-point-three-point-five´coming within range, sir," reported hispilot.
　　The general turned to his assault officer. "All troops will debark for groundassault," Veers said. "Prepare to target the main generator."
　　The lead walker, flanked by two of the hulking machines, lurched forward, itsguns blazing to scatter the retreating Rebel troops.
　　As more laser fire came from the oncoming walkers, Rebel bodies and parts ofRebel bodies were flung through the air. Many of the soldiers who had managed toavoid the obliterating laser beams were crushed into unrecognizable pulp beneath thewalkers' stomping feet. The air was charged with the stink of blood and burningflesh, and thundering with the explosive noises of battle.
　　As they fled, the few surviving Rebel soldiers glimpsed a long snowspeeder as itretreated in the distance, a black trail of smoke escaping its burning hull.
　　Although the smoke rising from his crippled speeder obstructed his view, Hobbiecould still see some of the carnage that raged on the ground. His wounds from awalker's laser fire made it torture even to move, let alone operate the controls of hiscraft. But if he could mange to work them just long enough to return to the base, hemight be able to find a medical robot and´
　　No, he doubted he would survive even that long. He was dying-of that he wasnow certain-and the men in the trench would soon be dead, too, unless somethingwere done to save them.
　　General Veers, proudly transmitting his report to Imperial headquarters, wastotally unaware of Rogue Four's approach. "Yes, Lord Vader, I've reached the mainpower generators. The shield will be down in moments. You may commence yourlanding."
　　As he ended his transmission, General Veers reached for the electrorangefinderand looked through the eyepiece to line up the main power generators. Electroniccrosshairs aligned according to the information from the walker's computer. Thensuddenly the readouts on the small monitor screens mysteriously vanished.
　　Confounded, General Veers moved away from the eyepiece of theelectrorangefinder and turned instinctively toward a cockpit window. He flinched interror at seeing a smoking projectile heading on the direct course toward his walker'scockpit.
　　The other pilots also saw the hurtling speeder, and knew that there was no timeto turn the massive assault machine. "He's going to-" one of the pilots began.
　　At that instant, Hobbie's burning ship crashed through the walker cockpit like amanned bomb, its fuel igniting into a cascade of flame and debris. For a secondthere were human screams, then fragments, and the entire machine crashed to theground.
　　Perhaps it was the sound of this nearby blast that jarred Luke Skywalker back toconsciousness. Dazed, he slowly lifted his head from the snow. He felt very weakand was achingly stiff with cold. The thought crossed his mind that frostbite mightalready have damaged his tissues. He hoped not; he had no desire to spend any moretime in that sticky bacta fluid.
　　He tried to stand, but fell back against the snow, hoping he would not be spottedby any of the walker pilots. His comlink whistled, and somehow he found thestrength to flick on its receiver.
　　"Forward units' withdrawal complete," the broadcast voice reported.
　　Withdrawal? Luke thought a moment. Then Leia and the others must haveescaped! Luke suddenly felt that all the fighting and the deaths of loyal Rebelpersonnel had not been for nothing. A warmth rushed through his body, and hegathered his strength to rise and begin making the long trek back toward a distantformation of ice.
　　Another explosion rocked the Rebel hangar deck, cracking the ceiling and almostburying the docked Millennium Falcon in a mound of ice. At any moment the entireceiling might cave in. the only safe place in the hangar seemed to be underneath theship itself where Chewbacca was impatiently awaiting the return of his captain. TheWookiee had begun to worry. If Han did not return soon, the Falcon would surelybe buried in a tomb of ice. But loyalty to his partner kept Chewie from taking off inthe freighter alone.
　　As the hangar started to tremble more violently, Chewbacca detected movementin the adjoining chamber. Throwing back his head, the shaggy giant filled thehangar with his loudest roar as he saw Han Solo climb over hills of ice and snow andenter the chamber, followed closely by Princess Leia and an obviously nervousSee-Threepio.
　　Not far from the hangar, Imperial stormtroopers, their faces shielded by whitehelmets and white snowscreens, had begun moving down deserted corridors. Withthem strode their leader, the dark-robed figure who surveyed the shambles that hadbeen the Rebel base at Hoth. Darth Vader's black image stood out starkly against thewhite walls, ceiling, and floor. As he moved through the white catacombs, heregally stepped aside to avoid a falling section of ice ceiling. Then he continued onhis way with such quick strides that his troops had to hurry to keep up.
　　A low whine, rising in pitch, began to issue from the saucer-shaped freighter.Han Solo stood at the controls in the Millennium Falcon's cockpit, at last feeling athome. He quickly flipped one switch after another, expecting to see the board flashits familiar mosaic of light; but only some of the lights were working.
　　Chewbacca had also noticed something amiss and barked with concern as Leiaexamined a gauge that seemed to be malfunctioning.
　　"How's that, Chewie?" asked Han anxiously.
　　The Wookiee's bark was distinctly negative.
　　"Would it help if I got out and pushed?" snapped Princess Leia, who wasbeginning to wonder if it were the Corellian's spit that held the ship together.
　　"Don't worry, Your Holiness. I'll get it started."
　　See-Threepio clanked into the hold and, gesturing, tried to get Han's attention."Sir," the robot volunteered, "I was wondering if I might-" But his scanners readthe scowl on the face staring at him. "It can wait," he concluded.
　　Imperial stormtroopers, accompanied by the rapidly moving Darth Vader,thundered through the ice corridors of the Rebel base. Their pace quickened as theyrushed in the direction of the low whine coming from the ion engines. Vader's bodytensed slightly as, entering the hangar, he perceived the familiar saucer-shaped formof the Millennium Falcon.
　　Within the battered freighter ship, Han Solo and Chewbacca were tryingdesperately to get the craft moving.
　　"This bucket of bolts is never going to get us past that blockade," Princess Leiacomplained.
　　Han pretended that he didn't hear her. Instead, he checked the Falcon'scontrols and struggled to keep his patience even though his companion had soobviously lost hers. He flipped switches on the control console, ignoring theprincess's look of disdain. Clearly, she doubted that this assemblage of spare partsand welded hunks of scrap metal would hold together even if they did manage to getbeyond the blockade.
　　Han pushed a button on the intercom. "Chewie´come on!" Then, winking atLeia, he said, "This baby's still got a few surprise left in her."
　　"I'll be surprised if we start moving."
　　Before Han could make a carefully honed retort, the Falcon was jolted by a blastof Imperial laser fire that flashed outside the cockpit window. They could all see thesquad of Imperial stormtroopers rushing with drawn weapons into the far end of theice hangar. Han knew that the Falcon's dented hull might resist the force of thosehand weapons, but would be destroyed by the more powerful bazooka-shaped weaponthat two of the Imperial troopers were hurriedly setting up.
　　"Chewie!" Han yelled as he quickly strapped himself into his pilot's chair.Meanwhile, a somewhat subdued young woman seated herself in the navigator'schair.
　　Outside the Millennium Falcon, stormtroopers worked with military efficiency toset up their enormous gun. Behind them the hangar doors began to open. One ofthe Falcon's powerful laser weapons appeared from the hull and swung about, aimingdirectly at the stormtroopers.
　　Han moved urgently to block the Imperial soldier's efforts. Without hesitationhe released a deadly blast from the powerful laser weapon he had aimed at thestormtroopers. The explosion scattered their armored bodies all over the hangar.
　　Chewbacca dashed into the cockpit.
　　"We'll just have to switch over," Han announced, "and hope for the best."
　　The Wookiee hurled his hairy bulk into the copilot's seat as yet another laserblast erupted outside the window next to him. He yelled indignantly, then yankedback on the controls to bring the welcome roar of engine fire from deep inside theFalcon.
　　The Corellian grinned at the princess, a gleeful I-told-you-so gleam in his eyes.
　　"Someday," she said with mild disgust, "you're going to be wrong, and I justhope I'm there to see it."
　　Han just smiled, then turned to his copilot. "Punch it!" he shouted.
　　The huge freighter's engines roared. And everything behind the craft instantlymelted in the fiery exhaust billowing from its tailpiece Chewbacca furiously workedthe controls, watching out of the corner of his eyes the ice walls rushing past as thefreighter blasted away.
　　At the last moment, just before takeoff. Han caught a glimpse of additionalstormtroopers running into the hangar. In their wake strode a foreboding giant cladentirely in black. Then there was only the blur and the beckoning of billions of stars.
　　As the Millennium Falcon soared from the hangar, its flight was detected byCommander Luke Skywalker, who turned to smile at Wedge and his gunner. "Atleast Han got away." The three then trudged along to their waiting X-wing fighterships. When they finally reached them, they shook hands and moved off towardtheir separate vehicles.
　　"Good luck, Luke," Wedge said as they parted. "See you at the rendezvous."
　　Luke waved and began to walk toward his X-wing. Standing there amid themountains of ice and snow, he was overcome by a surge of loneliness. He feltdesperately alone now that even Han was gone. Worse than that, Princess Leia wasalso somewhere else; she might just as well be an entire universe away´
　　Then out of nowhere a familiar whistle greeted Luke.
　　"Artoo!" he exclaimed. "Is that you?"
　　Sitting snugly in the socket that had been installed for these helpful R2 units wasthe little barrel-shaped droid, his head peeking from the top of the ship. Artoo hadscanned the approaching figure and had whistled with relief when his computersinformed him it was Luke. The young commander was equally relieved toreencounter the robot that had accompanied him on so many of his previousadventures.
　　As he climbed into the cockpit and seated himself behind the controls, Lukecould hear the sound of Wedge's fighter roaring into the sky toward the Rebelrendezvous point. "Activate the power and stop worrying. We'll soon beairborne," Luke said in response to Artoo's nervous beeping.
　　His was the last Rebel ship to abandon what had, for a very brief time, been asecret outpost in the revolution against the tyranny of the Empire.
　　Darth Vader, a raven specter, quickly strode through the ruins of the Rebel icefortress, forcing his accompanying men into a brisk jog to keep up. As they movedthrough the corridors, Admiral Piett rushed up to overtake his master.
　　"Seventeen ships destroyed," he reported to the Dark Lord. "We don't knowhow many got away."
　　Without turning his head, Vader snarled through his mask, "The MillenniumFalcon?"
　　Piett paused a moment before replying. He would have preferred to avoid thatissue. "Our tracking scanners are on it now," he responded a bit fearfully.
　　Vader turned to face the admiral, his towering figure looming over the frightenedofficer. Piett felt a chill course through his veins, and when the Dark Lord spokeagain his voice conveyed an image of the dreadful fate that would be inflicted if hiscommands were not executed.
　　"I want that ship," he hissed.
　　The ice planet was rapidly shrinking to a point of dim light as the MillenniumFalcon sped into space. Soon that planet seemed nothing more than one of thebillions of light specks scattered throughout the black void.
　　But the Falcon was not alone in its escape into deep space. Rather, it wasfollowed by an Imperial fleet that included the Avenger Star Destroyer and ahalf-dozen TIE fighter. The fighters moved ahead of the huge, slower-movingDestroyer, and closed in on the fleeing Millennium Falcon.
　　Chewbacca howled over the roar of the Falcon's engines. The ship wasbeginning to lurch with the buffeting flak blasted at it by the fighters.
　　"I know, I know, I see them," Han shouted. It was taking everything he had tomaintain control of the ship.
　　"See what?" Leia asked.
　　Han pointed out the window at two very bright objects.
　　"Two more Star Destroyers, and they're heading right at us."
　　"I'm glad you said there was going to be no problem," she commented withmore than a touch of sarcasm, "or I'd be worried."
　　The ship rocked under the steady fire from the TIE fighters making it difficult forThreepio to maintain his balance as he returned to the cockpit. His metal skinbumped and banged against the walls as he approached Han. "Sir," he begantentatively, "I was wondering´"
　　Han Solo shot him a threatening glance. "Either shut up or shut down." Hanwarned the robot, who immediately did the former.
　　Still struggling with the controls to keep the Millennium Falcon on course, thepilot turned to Wookiee. "Chewie, how's the deflector shield holding up?"
　　The cockpit adjusted an overhead switch and barked a reply that Solo interpretedas positive.
　　"Good," said Han. "At sublight, they may be faster, but we can stillout-maneuver them. Hold on!" Suddenly the Corellian shifted his ship's course.
　　The two Imperial Star Destroyers had com almost within firing range of theFalcon as they loomed ahead; the pursuing TIE fighters and the Avenger were alsodangerously close. Han felt he had no choice but to take the Falcon into aninety-degree dive.
　　Leia and Chewbacca felt their stomachs leap into their throats as the Falconexecuted its steep dive. Poor Threepio quickly had to alter his inner mechanism if hewanted to remain on his metallic fee.
　　Han realized that his crew might think he was some kind of lunatic star jockey,pushing his ship on this madman's course. But he had a strategy in mind. With theFalcon no longer between them, the two Star Destroyers were now on a directcollision course with the Avenger. All he had to do was sit back and watch.
　　Alarms blared through the interiors of all three Star Destroyers. Theseponderously massive ships could not respond quickly enough to such emergencies.Sluggishly one of the Destroyers began to move to the left in its effort to avoidcollision with the Avenger. Unfortunately, as it veered, it brushed its companion ship,violently shaking up both spaceborne fortresses. The damaged Destroyers began todrift through space, while the Avenger continued in pursuit of the Millennium Falconand its obviously insane pilot.
　　Two down, Han thought. But there was still a quartet of TIE fighters tailing theFalcon, blasting at its stern with full laser fire, but Han thought he could outstrip them.The ship was buffeted violently by the fighters' laser blasts, forcing Leia to hold on ina desperate attempt to keep her seat.
　　"That slowed them down a bit!" Han exulted. "Chewie, stand by to make thejump to light-speed." There was not a moment to waste-the laser attack wasintense now, and the TIE fighters were almost on top of them.
　　"They're very close," Leia warned, finally able to speak.
　　Han looked at her with a wicked glint in his eyes. "Oh, yeah? Watch this."
　　He threw the hyperspace throttle forward, desperate to escape, but also eager toimpress the princess with both his own cleverness and his ship's fantastic power.Nothing happened! The stars that should by then have been mere blurs of light werestill. Something was definitely wrong.
　　"Watch what?" Leia asked impatiently.
　　Instead of responding, Han worked the light-speed controls a second time.Again, nothing. "I think we're in trouble," he muttered. His throat tightened. Heknew "trouble" was a gross understatement.
　　"If I may say so, sir," Threepio volunteered, "I noticed earlier that the entiremain para-light system seemed to have been damaged."
　　Chewbacca threw back his head and let out a loud and miserable wail.
　　"We're in trouble!" Han repeated.
　　All around them, the laser attack had increased violently. The MillenniumFalcon could only continue at its maximum sublight velocity as it moved deeper intospace, closely followed by a swarm of TIE fighters and one gigantic Imperial StarDestroyer.

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
    

The Empire Strikes Back
VII

　　The double sets of wings on Luke Skywalker's X-wing fighter were pulled together toform one wing as the small, sleek craft streaked away from the planet of snow and ice. 
　　During his flight, the young commander had time to reflect on the events of thepast few days. He now had time to ponder the enigmatic words of the ghostly BenKenobi and think about his friendship with Han Solo, and also consider his tenuousrelationship with Leia Organa. As he thought of the people he cared most about, hearrived at a sudden decision. Gazing back one last time at the small icy planet, hetold himself there was no longer any turning back.
　　Luke flipped a number of switches on his control board and took the X-wing intoa steep turn. He watched the heavens shift as he rocketed off in a new direction,flying at top velocity. He was bringing his craft back onto an even course whenArtoo, still snug in his specially designed socket, began to whistle and beep.
　　The miniature computer installed in Luke's ship for translating the droid'slanguage flashed the small droid's message onto a control panel viewscreen.
　　"There's nothing wrong, Artoo," Luke replied after reading the translation."I'm just setting a new course."
　　The small droid beeped excitedly, and Luke turned to read the updated printouton the viewscreen.
　　"No," Luke replied, "we're not going to regroup with the others."
　　This news startled Artoo, who immediately emitted a series of galvanic noises.
　　"We're going to the Dagobah system," answered Luke.
　　Again the robot beeped, calculating the amount of fuel carried by the X-wing.
　　"We have enough power."
　　Artoo gave vent to a longer, singsong series of toots and whistles.
　　"They don't need us there," said Luke to the droid's question about the plannedRebel rendezvous.
　　Artoo then gently beeped a reminder about Princess Leia's order. Exasperated,the young pilot exclaimed, "I'm countermanding that order! Now, be still."
　　The little droid fell silent. Luke was, after all, a commander in the RebelAlliance and, as such, could countermand orders. He was making a few minoradjustments on the controls when Artoo chirped up again.
　　"Yes, Artoo," sighed Luke.
　　This time the droid made a series of soft noises, selecting each beep and whistlecarefully. He did not want to annoy Luke, but the findings on his computer wereimportant enough to report.
　　"Yes, Artoo, I know the Dagobah system doesn't appear on any of ournavigational charts. But don't worry. It's there."
　　Another worried beep from the R2 unit.
　　"I'm very sure," the youth said, trying to reassure his mechanical companion."Trust me."
　　Whether or not Artoo did trust the human being at the X-wing's controls, he onlyvented a meek little sigh. For a moment he was completely silent, as if thinking.Then he beeped again.
　　"Yes, Artoo?"
　　This communication from the robot was even more carefully put forth thanbefore-one might even call the whistle-sentences tactful. It seemed Artoo had nointention of offending the human to whom he had entrusted himself. But wasn't itpossible, the robot calculated, that the human's brain was slightly malfunctioning?After all, he had lain a long time in the snowdrifts of Hoth. Or, another possibilitycomputed by Artoo, perhaps the Wampa Ice Creature had struck him more seriouslythan Too-Onebee had diagnosed?´
　　"No," Luke answered, "no headache. I feel fine. Why?"
　　Artoo's chirp was coyly innocent.
　　"No dizziness, no drowsiness. Even the scars are gone."
　　The next whistle rose questioningly in pitch.
　　"No, that's all right, Artoo. I'd rather keep it on manual control for a while."
　　Then the stout robot delivered a final whimper that sounded to Luke like a noiseof defeat. Luke was amused by the droid's concern for his health. "Trust me,Artoo," Luke said with a gentle smile. "I know where I'm going and I'll get us theresafely. It's not far."
　　Han Solo was desperate now. The Falcon had still not been able to shrug offthe four TIE fighter or the enormous Star Destroyer that pursued it.
　　Solo raced down to the ship's hold and began to work frantically on repairing themalfunctioning hyperdrive unit. It was all but impossible to carry out the delicaterepair work necessary while the Falcon shook with each blast of flak from thefighters.
　　Han snapped orders at his copilot, who checked the mechanisms as he wascommanded. "Horizontal booster."
　　The Wookiee barked. It looked fine to him.
　　"Alluvial damper."
　　Another bark. That part was also in place.
　　"Chewie, get me the hydrospanners."
　　Chewbacca rushed over to the pit with the tools. Han grabbed the spanners,then paused and looked at his faithful Wookiee friend.
　　"I don't know how we're going to get out of this one," he confided.
　　Just then a resounding thump hit the Falcon's side, making the ship pitch andturn radically.
　　Chewbacca barked anxiously.
　　Han braced himself at the impact, the hydrospanners flew from his hand. Whenhe managed to regain his balance, he shouted at Chewbacca over the noise, "That wasno laser blast! Something hit us!"
　　"Han´Han´" Princess Leia called to him from the cockpit. She was frantic."Get up here!"
　　Like a shot, he lurched out of the hold and raced back to the cockpit withChewbacca. They were stunned by what they saw through the windows.
　　"Asteroids!"
　　Enormous chunks of flying rock hurtled through space as far as they could see.As if those damn Imperial pursuit ships weren't trouble enough!
　　Han instantly returned to his pilot's seat, once more taking over the Falcon'scontrols. His copilot settled himself back into his own seat just as a particularlylarge asteroid sped by the prow of the ship.
　　Han felt he had to stay as calm as possible; otherwise they might not last morethan a few moments. "Chewie," he ordered, "set two-seven-one."
　　Leia gasped. She knew what Han's order meant and was stunned by so recklessa plan. "You're not thinking of heading into the asteroid field?" she asked, hopingshe had misunderstood his command.
　　"Don't worry, they won't follow us through this!" he shouted with glee.
　　"If I might remind you, sir," Threepio offered, trying to be a rational influence,"the probability of successfully navigating through an asteroid field is approximatelytwo thousand four hundred and sixty-seven to one."
　　No one seemed to hear him.
　　Princess Leia scowled. "You don't have to do this to impress me," she said, asthe Falcon was pummeled hard by another asteroid.
　　Han was enjoying himself enormously and chose to ignore her insinuations."Hang on, sweetheart," he laughed, grasping the controls more tightly. "We'regonna do some flyin'."
　　Leia winced and, resigned, buckled herself firmly into her seat.
　　See-Threepio, still muttering calculations, shut down his synthesized humanvoice when the Wookiee turned and growled at him.
　　But Han concentrated only on carrying out his plan. He knew it would work; ithad to-there was no other choice. Flying more on instinct than on instruments, hesteered his ship through the relentless rain of stone. Glancing quickly at his scannerscreens, he saw that the TIE fighters and the Avengers had not yet abandoned thechase. It would be an Imperial funeral, he thought, as he maneuvered the Falconthrough the asteroid hail.
　　He looked at another viewscreen and smiled as it showed a collision between anasteroid and a TIE fighter. The explosion registered on the screen with a burst oflight. No survivors in that one, Han thought.
　　The TIE fighter pilots chasing the Falcon were among the best in the Empire.But they couldn't compete with Han Solo. Either they weren't good enough, or theyweren't crazy enough. Only a lunatic would have plunged his ship into a suicidaljourney through these asteroids. Crazy or not, these pilots had no choice but tofollow in hot pursuit. They undoubtedly would be better off perishing in thisbombardment of rocks than reporting failure to their dark master.
　　The greatest of all the Imperial Star Destroyers regally moved out of Hoth's orbit.It was flanked by two other Star Destroyers and the entire group was accompanied bya protective squadron of smaller warships. In the central Destroyer, Admiral Piettstood outside Darth Vader's private meditation chamber. The upper jaw slowlyopened until Piett was able to glimpse his robed master standing in the shadows."My lord," Piett said with reverence.
　　"Come in, Admiral."
　　Admiral Piett felt great awe as he stepped into the dimly lit room and approachedthe Dark Lord of the Sith. His master stood silhouetted so that Piett could just barelymake out the lines of a set of mechanical appendages as they retracted a respiratortube from Vader's head. He shuddered when he realized that he might be the firstever to have seen his master unmasked.
　　The sight was horrifying. Vader, his back turned to Piett, was entirely clothedin black; but above his studded black neck ban gleamed his naked head. Though theadmiral tried to avert his eyes, morbid fascination forced him to look at that hairless,skull-like head. It was covered with a maze of thick scar tissue that twisted aroundagainst Vader's corpse-pale skin. The thought crossed Piett's mind that there mightbe a heavy price for viewing what no one else had seen. Just then, the robot handsgrasped the black helmet and gently lowered it over the Dark Lord's head.
　　His helmet back in place, Darth Vader turned to hear his admiral's report.
　　"Our pursuit ship have sighted the Millennium Falcon, my lord. It has enteredan asteroid field."
　　"Asteroids don't concern me, Admiral," Vader said as he slowly clenched his fist."I want that ship, not excuses. How long until you will have Skywalker and theothers in the Millennium Falcon?"
　　"Soon, Lord Vader," the admiral answered, trembling in fear.
　　"Yes, Admiral´" Darth Vader said slowly, "´soon."
　　Two gigantic asteroids hurtled toward the Millennium Falcon. Its pilot quicklymade a daring banking maneuver that brought it skirring out of the path of those twoasteroids, nearly to collide with a third.
　　As the Falcon darted in and out of the asteroid field, it was followed closely bythree Imperial TIE fighters that veered through the rocks in hot pursuit. Suddenlyone of the three was fatally scraped by a shapeless chunk of rock and spun off inanother direction, hopelessly out of control. The other two TIE fighters continuedtheir chase, accompanied by the Star Destroyer Avenger, which was blasting speedingasteroid in its path.
　　Han Solo glimpsed the pursuing ships through the windows of his cockpit as hespun his craft around, speeding under yet another oncoming asteroid, then bringingthe freighter back to its right-side-up position. But the Millennium Falcon was notyet out of danger. Asteroids were still streaking past the freighter. A small onebounced off the ship with a loud, reverberating clang, terrifying Chewbacca andcausing See-Threepio to cover his eye lenses with a bronzed hand.
　　Han glanced at Leia and saw that she was sitting stone-faced as she stared at theswarm of asteroids. It looked to him as if she wished she were thousands of milesaway.
　　"Well," he remarked, "you said you wanted to be around when I was wrong."
　　She didn't look at him. "I take it back."
　　"That Star Destroyer is slowing down," Han announced, checking his computerreadings.
　　"Good," she replied shortly.
　　The view outside the cockpit was still thick with racing asteroids. "We're goingto get pulverized if we stay out here much longer," he observed.
　　"I'm against that," Leia remarked dryly.
　　"We've got to get out of this shower."
　　"That make sense."
　　"I'm going to get in closer to one of the big ones," Han added.
　　That did not make sense.
　　"Closer!" Threepio exclaimed, throwing up his metal arms. His artificial braincould scarcely register what his auditory sensors had just perceived.
　　"Closer!" Leia repeated in disbelief.
　　Chewbacca stared at his pilot in amazement and barked.
　　None of the three could understand why their captain, who had risked his life thesave them all, would now try to get them killed! Making a few simple adjustmentson the cockpit controls, Han swerved the Millennium Falcon between a few largeasteroids, then aimed the craft directly at one the size of a moon.
　　A flashing shower of smaller rocks exploded against the enormous asteroid'scraggy surface as the Millennium Falcon, with the Emperor's TIE fighters still inpursuit, flew directly above the asteroid. It was like skimming over the surface of asmall planet, barren and devoid of all life.
　　With expert precision, Han Solo steered his ship toward still another giantasteroid, the largest one they had yet encountered. Summoning all the skill that hadmade his reputation known throughout the galaxy, he maneuvered the Falcon so thatthe only object between it and the TIE fighters was the deadly floating rock.
　　There was only a brief, brilliant flare of light, then nothing. The shatteredremains of the two TIE fighters drifted away into the darkness and the tremendousasteroid-undeflected in its course-continued on its way.
　　Han felt an inner glow as bright as the spectacle that had just lighted up the view.He smiled to himself in quiet triumph.
　　Then he noticed an image on the main scope of his control console and nudgedhis hairy copilot. "There." Han pointed to the image. "Chewie, get a reading onthat. Looks pretty good."
　　"What is it?" Leia asked.
　　The Falcon's pilot ignored her question. "That should do nicely," he said.
　　As they flew near the asteroid's surface, Han looked down at the craggy terrain,his eye caught by a shadowy area that looked like a crater of mammoth proportions.He lowered the Falcon to surface level and flew it directly into the crater, its bowllikewalls suddenly rising up around his ship.
　　And still two TIE fighters chased after him, firing their laser cannons andattempting to mimic his every maneuver.
　　Han Solo knew he had to be trickier and more daring if he was to lose the deadlypursuit ships. Spotting a narrow chasm through his windscreen, he banked theMillennium Falcon to one side. The ship soared sideways through the high-walledrocky trench.
　　Unexpectedly the two TIE fighters followed. One of them even sparked as itgrazed the walls with its metal hull.
　　Twisting, banking, and turning his ship, Han pressed through the narrow gorge.From behind the black sky flared as the two TIE fighters crashed against one another,then exploded against the rocky ground.
　　Han reduced his speed. He still wasn't safe from the Imperial hunters.Searching about the canyon, he spotted something dark, a gaping cave mouth at thevery bottom of the crater, large enough to hold the Millennium Falcon-perhaps. Ifnot, he and his crew would know soon enough.
　　Slowing his hip, Han coursed into the cave entrance and through a large tunnel,which he hoped would make the ideal hiding place. He took a deep breath as hisship was promptly devoured by the cave's shadows.
　　A tiny X-wing was approaching the atmosphere of the Dagobah planet.
　　As he neared the planet, Luke Skywalker was able to glimpse a portion of itscurved surface through a heavy cover of thick clouds. The planet was uncharted andvirtually unknown. Somehow Luke had made his way there, though he wasn'tcertain whether it was his hand along that had guided his ship into this unexploredsector of space.
　　Artoo-Detoo, riding in the back of Luke's X-wing, scanned the passing stars,then addressed his remarks to Luke via the computer scope.
　　Luke read the viewscreen interpreter. "Yes, that's Dagobah, Artoo," heanswered the little robot, then glanced out the cockpit window as the fighter shipbegan to descend toward the planet's surface. "Looks a little grim, doesn't it?"
　　Artoo beeped, attempting for one last time to get his master back on a moresensible course.
　　"No," Luke replied, "I don't want to change my mind about this." He checkedthe ship's monitors and began to feel a bit nervous. "I'm not picking up any cities ortechnology. Massive life-form readings, though. There's something alive downthere."
　　Artoo was worried, too, and that was translated as an apprehensive inquiry.
　　"Yes, I'm sure it's perfectly safe for droids. Will you take it easy?" Luke wasbeginning to get annoyed. "We'll just have to see what happens."
　　He heard a pathetic electronic whimper from the rear of the cockpit.
　　"Don't worry!"
　　the X-wing sailed through the twilight halo separating pitch black space from theplanet's surface. Luke took a deep breath, then plunged his craft into the whiteblanket of mists.
　　He couldn't see a thing. His vision was entirely obstructed by the densewhiteness pressing against the canopy windows of his ship. His only choice was tocontrol his X-wing solely by instruments. But the scopes weren't registeringanything, even as Luke flew ever nearer to the planet. Desperately, he worked hiscontrols, no longer able to discern even so much as his altitude.
　　When an alarm began to buzz, Artoo joined its clarion call with his own franticseries of whistles and beeps.
　　"I know, I know!" Luke shouted, still fighting the controls of his ship. "All thescopes are dead! I can't see a thing. Hang on, I'm going to start the landing cycle.Let's just hope there's something underneath us."
　　Artoo squealed again, but his sound were effectively frowned by the ear-splittingblast of the X-wing's retrorockets. Luke felt his stomach plunge as the ship began todrop rapidly. He braced against his pilot's seat, steeling himself for any possibleimpact. Then the ship lunged and Luke heard an awful sound as if the limbs of treeswere being snapped off by his speeding craft.
　　When the X-wing finally screeched to a halt, it was with a tremendous jolt thatnearly flung its pilot through the cockpit window. Certain, at last, that he was on theground, Luke slumped back in his chair and sighed with relief. He then pulled aswitch that lifted his ship's canopy. When he raised his head outside the ship to gethis first look at the alien world, Luke Skywalker gasped.
　　The X-wing was completely surrounded by mists, its bright landing lights notilluminating more than a few feet in front of it. Luke's eyes gradually began to growaccustomed to the gloom all around him so that he could just barely see the twistedtrunks and roots of grotesque-looking trees. He pulled himself out of the cockpit asArtoo detached his stout body from its cubbyhole plug.
　　"Artoo," Luke said, "you stay put while I look around."
　　The enormous gray tree had gnarled and intertwining roots that rose far aboveLuke before they joined to form trunks. He tilted back his head and could see thebranches, high above, that seemed to form a canopy with the low-hanging clouds.Luke cautiously climbed out onto the long nose of his ship and saw that he hadcrash-landed in a small, fog-shrouded body of water.
　　Artoo emitted a short beep-then there was a loud splash, followed by silence.Luke turned just in time to glimpse the droid's domed topside as it disappearedbeneath the water's foggy surface.
　　"Artoo! Artoo!" Luke called. He kneeled down on the smooth hull of the shipand leaned forward, anxiously searching for his mechanical friend.
　　But the black waters were serene, revealing not a sign of the little R2 unit.Luke could not tell how deep this still, murky pond might be; but it looked extremelydeep. He was suddenly gripped by the realization that he might never see his droidfriend again. Just then, a tiny periscope broke through the surface of the water andLuke could hear a faint gurgling beep.
　　What a relief! Luke thought, as he watched the periscope make its way towardshore. He ran along the nose of his X-wing fighter, and when the shore line was lessthan three meters away, the young commander jumped into the water and scrambledup the shore. He looked back and saw that Artoo was still making his way towardthe beach.
　　"Hurry, Artoo!" Luke shouted.
　　Whatever it was that suddenly moved through the water behind Artoo moved tooquickly and was too obscured by the mist for Luke to clearly identify it. Al he couldsee was a massive dark form. This creature rose up for a moment, then dove beneaththe surface, making a loud bang against the little droid's metal hill. Luke heard therobot's pathetic electronic scream for help. Then, nothing´
　　Luke stood there, horror-struck, as he continued to stare at the black waters, stillas death itself. As he watched, a few tell-tale bubbles began to erupt at the surface.Luke's heart began to pound in fear as he realized he was standing too near the pool.But before he could move, the runt-size robot was spit out by the thing lurkingbeneath the black surface. Artoo made a graceful arc through the air and camecrashing down onto a soft patch of gray moss.
　　"Artoo," Luke yelled, running to him, "are you okay?" Luke was grateful that theshadowy swamp lurker apparently found metal droid neither palatable nor digestible.
　　Feebly the robot replied with a series of faint whistles and beeps.
　　"If you're saying coming here was a bad idea, I'm beginning to agree with you,"Luke admitted, looking around at their dismal surroundings. At least, he thought,there was human companionship on the ice world. Here, except for Artoo, thereseemed to be nothing but this murky bog-and creatures, as yet unseen, that mightlurk in the falling darkness.
　　Dusk was quickly approaching. Luke shivered in the thickening fog that closedin on him like something alive. He helped Artoo-Detoo back onto his feet, thenwiped away the swamp muck that covered the droid's cylindrical body. As heworked, Luke heard eerie and inhuman cries that emanated from the distant jungleand shuddered as he imagined the beasts that might making them.
　　By the time he finished clearing off Artoo, Luke observed that the sky had grownnoticeably darker. Shadows loomed ominously all around him and the distant criesdidn't seem quite so far away anymore. He and Artoo glanced around at the spookyswamp-jungle surrounding them, then huddled a bit closer. Suddenly, Luke noticeda pair of tiny but vicious eyes winking at them through the shadowy underbrush, thenvanishing with a scutter of diminutive feet.
　　He hesitated to doubt the advice of Ben Kenobi, but now he was beginning towonder if that robed specter had somehow made a mistake leading him to this planetwith its mysterious Jedi teacher.
　　He looked over at his X-wing and groaned when he saw that the entire bottomsection was completely submerged in the dark water. "How are we going to get thatthing flying again?" The whole set of circumstances seemed hopeless and somewhatridiculous. "What are we doing here?" he moaned.
　　It was beyond the computerized abilities of Artoo to provide an answer for eitherof these questions, but he made a little comforting beep anyway.
　　"It's like part of a dream," Luke said. He shook his head, feeling cold andfrightened. "Or maybe I'm going crazy."
　　At least, he knew for certain, he couldn't have gotten himself into a craziersituation.

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
    

The Empire Strikes Back
VIII

　　Darth Vader looked like a great silent god as he stood on the main control deck of hismammoth Star Destroyer. 
　　He was staring through the large rectangular window above the deck at theraging field of asteroids that was pelting his ship as it glided through space.Hundred of rocks streaked past the windows. Some collided with one another andexploded in brilliant displays of vivid light.
　　As Vader watched, one of his smaller ships disintegrated under the impact of anenormous asteroid. Seemingly unmoved, he turned to look at a series of twentyholographic images. These twenty holograms re-created in three dimensions thefeatures of twenty Imperial battleship commanders. The image of commanderwhose ship had just been obliterated was fading rapidly, almost as quickly as theglowing particles of his exploded ship were being flung to oblivion.
　　Admiral Piett and an aide quietly moved to stand behind their black-garbedmaster as he turned to an image in the center of the twenty holograms which wascontinually interrupted by static and faded in and out as Captain Needa of the StarDestroyer Avenger made his report. His first words had already been drowned bystatic.
　　"´which was the last time they appeared in any of our scopes," Captain Needacontinued, "Considering the amount of damage we've sustained, they also must havebeen destroyed."
　　Vader disagreed. He knew of the Millennium Falcon's power and was quitefamiliar with the skills of her cocky pilot. "No, Captain," he snarled angrily,"they're alive. I want every ship available to sweep the asteroid field until they'refound."
　　As soon as Vader had given his command, Captain Needa's image and those ofthe other nineteen captains faded completely. When the last hologram vanished, theDark Lord, having sensed the two men standing behind him, turned. "Now what isso important it couldn't wait, Admiral?" he asked imperiously. "Speak up!"
　　The admiral's face turned pale with fear, his trembling voice shaking almost asmuch as his body. "It was´the Emperor."
　　"The Emperor?" the voice behind the black breath mask repeated.
　　"Yes," the admiral replied. "He commands you make contact with him."
　　"Move this ship out of the asteroid field," Vader ordered, "into a position wherewe can send a clear transmission."
　　"Yes, my lord."
　　"And cod the signal to my private chamber."
　　The Millennium Falcon had come to rest hidden in the small cave, which waspitch black and dripping with moisture. The Falcon's crew turned down its enginesuntil no sound at all was emitted from the small craft.
　　Inside the cockpit, Han Solo and his shaggy copilot were just completingshutting down the ship's electronic systems. As they did so, all the service lightsdimmed and the interior of the ship became nearly as dark as its sheltering cave.
　　Han glanced over at Leia and flashed her a quick grin. "Getting kind ofromantic in here."
　　Chewbacca growled. There was work to be done in here and the Wookieeneeded Han's undivided attention if they were going to repair the malfunctioninghyperdrive.
　　Irritated, Han returned to his work. "What are you so grouchy about?" hesnapped.Before the Wookiee could respond, the protocol droid timidly approached Han andposed a question of burning importance. "Sir, I'm afraid to ask, but does shuttingdown all except emergency power systems include me?"
　　Chewbacca expressed his opinion with a resounding bark of affirmation, but Handisagreed. "No," he said, "we're going to need you to talk to the old Falcon hereand find out what happened to our hyperdrive." He looked over at the princess andadded, "How are you with a macrofuser, Your Holiness?"
　　Before Leia could get off a suitable retort, the Millennium Falcon lurchedforward as a sudden impact struck its hull. Everything that was not bolted downflew through the cockpit; even the giant Wookiee, howling boisterously, had tostruggle to stay in his chair.
　　"Hang on!" Han yelled. "Watch out!"
　　See-Threepio clattered against a wall, then collected himself. "Sir, it's verypossible this asteroid is not stable."
　　Han glared at him. "I'm glad you're here to tell us these things."
　　The ship rocked once more, even more violently than before.
　　The Wookiee howled again; Threepio stumbled backward, and Leia was hurledacross the cabin directly into the waiting arms of Captain Solo.
　　The ship's rocking stopped as suddenly as it had started. But Leia still stood inHan's embrace. For once she did not draw away, and he could almost swear she waswillingly embracing him. "Why, Princess," he said, pleasantly surprised, "this is sosudden."
　　At that, she began to pull back. "Let go," she insisted, trying to move out of hisarms. "I'm getting angry."
　　He saw the old familiar expression of arrogance beginning to return to her face."You don't look angry," he lied.
　　"How do I look?"
　　"Beautiful," he answered truthfully, with an emotion that surprised him.
　　Leia felt suddenly, unexpectedly shy. Her cheeks flushed pink, and when sherealized she was blushing, she averted her eyes. But she still did not really try to getfree.
　　Han somehow couldn't let the tender moment last. "And excited," he had toadd.
　　Leia became infuriated. Once again the angry princess and haughty senator,she quickly moved away from him and drew herself up to her most regal bearing."Sorry, Captain," she said, her cheeks now reddened in anger, "being held by you isn'tenough to get me excited."
　　"Well, I hope you don't expect more," he grunted, angrier at himself than at herstinging words.
　　"I don't expect anything," Leia said indignantly, "except to be left alone."
　　"If you'll just get out of my way, I'll leave you alone."
　　Embarrassed to realize that she was, indeed, still standing rather close, Leiastepped aside and made an effort to change the subject. "Don't you think it's timewe got to work on your ship.
　　Han frowned. "Fine with me," he said coldly, not looking at her.
　　Leia quickly turned on her heel and left the cockpit.
　　For a moment Han stood there quietly, just gathering his composure.Sheepishly he looked at the now quiet Wookiee and droid, both of whom hadwitnessed the entire incident.
　　"Come on, Chewie, let's tear into this flying short circuit," he said quickly to endthe awkward moment.
　　The copilot barked in agreement, then joined his captain as they began to leavethe cockpit. As they walked out, Han looked back at Threepio, who was stillstanding in the dim chamber looking dumbfounded. "You too, goldenrod!"
　　"I must admit," the robot muttered to himself as he began to shuffle out of thecockpit, "there are times I don't understand human behavior."
　　The lights of Luke Skywalker's X-wing fighter pierced the darkness of the bogplanet. The ship had sunk deeper into the scummy waters, but there was still enoughof it above the surface to let Luke carry needed supplies from the storagecompartments. He knew it could not be much longer before his ship sankdeeper-possibly all the way-beneath the water. He thought that his chance ofsurvival might be increased if he gathered as many supplies as he could.
　　It was now so dark that Luke could scarcely see in front of him. Out in thedense jungle he heard a sharp snapping noise and felt a chill run through him.Grabbing his pistol, he prepared to blast any thing that leaped from the jungle toattack him. But nothing did, and he clipped his weapon back onto its holster andcontinued to unpack his gear.
　　"You ready for some power?" Luke asked Artoo, who was patiently waiting forhis own form of nourishment. Luke took a small fusion furnace from an equipmentbox and ignited it, welcoming even the tiny glow thrown off by the small heatingdevice then took a power cable and attached it to Artoo through a protuberance thatroughly resembled a nose. As power radiated through Artoo's electronic innards, thestout robot whistled his appreciation.
　　Luke sat down and opened a container of processed food. As he began to eat,he talked to the robot. "Now all I have to do is find this Yoda, if he even exists."
　　He looked around nervously at the shadows in the jungle and felt frightened,miserable, and increasingly in doubt about his quest. "This certainly seems like astrange place to find a Jedi Master," he said to the little robot. "Gives me thecreeps."
　　From the sound of his beep, it was clear Artoo shared Luke's opinion of theswamp world.
　　"Although," Luke continued as he reluctantly tasted more of the food, "there'ssomething familiar about this place. I feel like-"
　　"You feel like what?"
　　That wasn't Artoo's voice! Luke leaped up, grabbed his pistol, then spun around,peering into the gloom to try to find the source of those words.
　　As he turned he saw a tiny creature standing directly in front of him. Lukeimmediately stepped back in surprise; this little being seemed to have materialized outof nowhere! It stood no more than half a meter in height, fearlessly holding itsground in front of the towering youth who wielded an awesome laser pistol.
　　The little wizened thing could have been any age. Its face was deeply lined, butwas framed with elfin, pointed ears that gave it a look of eternal youth. Long whitehair was parted down the middle and hung down on either side of the blue-skinnedhead. The being was bipedal, and stood on short legs that terminated in tridactyl,almost reptilian feet. It wore rags as gray as the mists of the swamp, and in suchtatters that they must have approximated the creature's very age.
　　For the moment, Luke could not decide whether to be frightened or to laugh.But when he gazed into those bulbous eyes and sensed the being's kindly nature, herelaxed. At last the creature motioned toward the pistol in Luke's hand.
　　"Away put your weapon. I mean you no harm," it said.
　　After some hesitation, Luke quietly put his pistol back into his belt. As he didso, he wondered why he felt impelled to obey this little creature.
　　"I am wondering," the creature spoke again, "why are you here?"
　　"I'm looking for someone," Luke answered.
　　"Looking? Looking?" the creature repeated curiously with a wide smilebeginning to crease his already-lined face. "You've found someone I'd say. Heh?Yes!"
　　Luke had to force himself not to smile. "Yeah."
　　"Help you I can´yes´yes."
　　Inexplicably Luke found himself trusting the odd creature, but wasn't at all surethat such a tiny individual could be of help on his important quest. "I don't thinkso," he replied gently. "You see, I'm looking for a great warrior."
　　"A great warrior?" The creature shook his head, the whitish hair floppingabout his pointed ears. "Wars don't make one great."
　　A strange phrase, Luke thought. But before he could answer, Luke saw the tinyhominid hobble over to the top of the salvaged supply cases. Shocked, he watchedas the creature began to rummage through the articles Luke had brought with himfrom Hoth.
　　"Get away from there," he said, surprised at this sudden strange behavior.
　　Moving across the ground, Artoo waddled toward the pile of cases, standing justabout at optical sensor level with the creature. The droid squealed his disapproval ashe scanned the creature that was carelessly digging through the supplies.
　　The strange being grabbed the container holding the remains of Luke's food andtook a bite.
　　"Hey, that's my dinner!" Luke exclaimed.
　　But no sooner had the creature taken his first bite than he spat out what he hadtasted, his deeply lined face wrinkling like a prune. "Peewh!" he said spitting."Thank you, no. How get you so big eating food of this kind?" He looked Luke upand down.
　　Before the astounded youth could reply, the creature flipped the food container inLuke's direction, then dipped one of his small and delicate hands into another supplycase.
　　"Listen, friend," Luke said, watching this bizarre scavenger, "we didn't mean toland here. And if I could get my fighter out of this puddle I would, but I can't.So-"
　　"Can't get your ship out? Have you tried? Have you tried?" the creaturegoaded.
　　Luke had to admit to himself that he had not, but then the whole idea waspatently ludicrous. He didn't have the proper equipment to-
　　Something in Luke's case had attracted the creature's interest. Luke finallyreached the end of his patience when he saw the crazy little being snatch somethingout of the supply case. Knowing that survival depended on those supplies, hegrabbed for the case. But the creature held on to his prize-a miniature power lampthat he gripped tightly in his blue-skinned hand. The little light came alive in thecreature's hand, throwing its radiance up into his delighted face, and he immediatelybegan to examine his treasure.
　　"Give me that!" Luke cried.
　　The creature retreated from the approaching youth like a petulant child. "Mine!Mine! Or I'll help you not."
　　Still clutching the lamp to his breast, the creature stepped backward,inadvertently bumping into Artoo-Detoo. Not remembering that the robot was at allanimate, the being stood next to it as Luke approached.
　　"I don't want your help," Luke said indignantly. "I want my lamp back. I'llneed it in this slimy mudhole."
　　Luke instantly realized he had issued an insult.
　　"Mudhole? Slimy? My home this is!"
　　As they argued, Artoo slowly reached out a mechanical arm. Suddenly hisappendage grabbed the pilfered lamp and immediately the two little figures wereengaged in a tug-of-war over the stolen prize. As they spun about in battle, Artoobeeped a few electronic, "give me that's"
　　"Mine, mine. Give it back," the creature cried. Abruptly, though, he seemedto give up the bizarre struggle and lightly poked the droid with one bluish finger.
　　Artoo emitted a loud, startled squeal and immediately released the power lamp.
　　The victor grinned at the glowing object in his tiny hands, gleefully repeating,"Mine, mine."
　　Luke was about fed up with these antics and advised the robot that the battle wasover. "Okay, Artoo," he said with a sigh, "let him have it. Now get out of here,little fellow. We've got things to do."
　　"No, no!" the creature pleaded excitedly. "I'll stay and help you find yourfriend."
　　"I'm not looking for a friend," Luke said. "I'm looking for a Jedi Master."
　　"Oh," the creature's eyes widened as he spoke, "a Jedi Master. Differentaltogether. Yoda, you seek, Yoda."
　　Mention of that name surprised Luke, but he felt skeptical. How could an elflike this know anything about a great teacher of the Jedi Knights? You know him?"
　　"Of course, yes," the creature said proudly. "I'll take you to him. But first wemust eat. Good food. Come, come."
　　With that, the creature scurried out of Luke's camp and into the shadows of theswamp. The tiny power lamp he carried was gradually dimming in the distance asLuke stood feeling baffled. At first he had no intention of pursuing the creature, butall at once he found himself diving into the fog after him.
　　As Luke started off into the jungle, he heard Artoo whistling and beeping as if hewould blow his circuits. Luke turned around to see the little droid standing forlornlynext to the miniature fission furnace.
　　"You'd better stay here and watch over the camp," Luke instructed the robot.
　　But Artoo only intensified his noisy output, running through the entire gamut ofhis electronic articulations.
　　"Artoo , now settle down," Luke called as he ran into the jungle. "I can takecare of myself. I'll be safe, okay?"
　　Artoo's electronic grumbling grew fainter as Luke hurried to catch up with thelittle guide. I must really be out of my mind, Luke thought, following this weirdbeing into who-knows-what. But the creature had mentioned Yoda's name, andLuke felt compelled to accept any help he could get to find the Jedi Master. Hestumbled in the dark over thick weeds and twisting roots as he pursued the flickeringlight ahead.
　　The creature was chattering gaily as he led the way through the swamp."Heh´safe´heh´quite safe´yes, of course." Then, in his odd little way, thismysterious being started to laugh.
　　Two Imperial cruisers slowly moved across the surface of the giant asteroid.The Millennium Falcon had to be hidden somewhere within-but where?
　　As the ships skimmed the surface of the asteroid, they dropped bombs on itspockmarked terrain, trying to scare out the freighter. The shock waves from theexplosives violently shook the spheroid, but there was no sign of the Falcon. As itdrifted above the asteroid, one of the Imperial Star Destroyers cast an eclipsingshadow across the tunnel entrance. Yet the ship's scanners failed to not the curioushole in the bowllike wall. Within that hole, in a winding tunnel not detected by theminions of the powerful Empire, sat the freighter. It rattled and vibrated with everyexplosion that pounded the surface above.
　　Inside, Chewbacca worked feverishly to repair the complex powertrain. He hadscrambled into an overhead compartment to get at the wires that operated thehyperdrive system. But when he felt the first of the explosions, he popped his headout through the mass of wires and gave out a worried yelp.
　　Princess Leia, who was welding a damaged valve, stopped her work and lookedup. The bombs sounded very close.
　　See-Threepio glanced up at Leia and nervously tilted his head. "Oh, my," hesaid, "they've found us."
　　Everyone became quiet, as if fearing that the sound of their voices mightsomehow carry and betray their exact position. Again the ship was shaken by a blast,less intense than the last.
　　"They're moving away," Leia said.
　　Han saw through their tactic. "They're just trying to see if they can stir upsomething," he told her. "We're safe if we stay put."
　　"Where have I heard that line before?" Leia said with an innocent air.
　　Ignoring her sarcasm, Han moved past her as he went back to work. Thepassageway in the hold was so narrow that he couldn't avoid brushing against her ashe passed by-or could he?
　　With mixed emotions the princess watched him for a moment as he continued towork on his ship. And then she turned back to her welding.
　　See-Threepio ignored all this odd human behavior. He was too busy trying tocommunicate with the Falcon, trying to find out what was wrong with its hyperdrive.Standing at the central control panel, Threepio was making uncharacteristic whistleand beep sounds. A moment later, the control panel whistled back.
　　"Where is Artoo when I need him?" sighed the golden robot. The controlpanel's response had been difficult for him to interpret. "I don't know where yourship learned to communicate," Threepio announced to Han, "but its dialect leavessomething to be desired. I believe, sir, it says the power coupling on the negativeaxis has been polarized. I'm afraid you'll have to replace it."
　　"Of course I'll have to replace it," Han snapped, then called up to Chewbacca,who was peering from the ceiling compartment. "Replace it!" he whispered.
　　He noticed that Leia had finished her welding but was having trouble reengagingthe valve, struggling with a lever that simply would not budge. He moved towardher and began offering to help, but she coldly turned her back to him and continuedher battle with the valve.
　　"Easy, Your Worship," he said. "Only trying to help."
　　Still struggling with the lever, Leia asked quietly, "Would you please stop callingme that?"
　　Han was surprised at the princess's simple tone. He had expected a stingingretort or, at best, a cold silence. But her words were missing the mocking tone thathe was accustomed to hearing. Was she finally bringing their relentless battle ofwills to an end? "Sure," he said gently.
　　"You make things difficult sometimes," Leia said as she shyly glanced at him.
　　He had to agree. "I do, I really do." But he added, "You could be a little nicer,too. Come on, admit it, sometimes you think I'm all right."
　　She let go of the lever and rubbed her sore hand. "Sometimes," she said with alittle smile, "maybe´occasionally, when you aren't acting the scoundrel."
　　"Scoundrel?" he laughed, finding her choice of words endearing. "I like thesound of that."
　　Without another word, he reached for Leia's hand and began to massage it.
　　"Stop it," Leia protested.
　　Han continued to hold her hand. "Stop what?" he asked softly.
　　Leia felt flustered, confused, embarrassed-a hundred things in that moment.But her sense of dignity prevailed. "Stop that!" she said regally. "My hands aredirty."
　　Han smiled at her feeble excuse, but held on to her hand and looked right intoher eyes. "My hands are dirty, too. What are you afraid of?"
　　"Afraid?" She returned his direct gaze. "Of getting my hand dirty."
　　"That's why you're trembling?" he asked. He could see that she was affectedby his closeness and by his touch, and her expression softened. Whereupon hereached out and took her other hand.
　　"I think you like me because I'm a scoundrel," he said. "I think you haven'thad enough scoundrels in your life." As he spoke he slowly drew her near.
　　Leia didn't resist his gentle pull. Now, as she looked at him, she thought he hadnever seemed more handsome, but she was still the princess. "I happen to like nicemen," she chided in a whisper.
　　"And I'm not nice?" Han asked, teasing.
　　Chewbacca stuck his head out from the overhead compartment and watched theproceedings unnoticed.
　　"Yes," she whispered, "but you´"
　　Before she could finish, Han Solo drew her to him and felt her body tremble ashe pressed his lips to hers. It seemed forever, it seemed an eternity to share betweenthem, as he gently bent her body back. This time she didn't resist at all.
　　When they parted, Luke needed a moment to catch her breath. She tried toregain her composure and work up a measure of indignation, but she found it difficultto talk.
　　"Okay, hot shot," she began. "I-"
　　but then she stopped and suddenly found herself kissing him, pulling him evencloser than before.
　　When their lips finally parted, Han held Leia in his arms as they looked at eachother. For a long moment there was a peaceful kind of emotion between them.Then Leia began to draw away, her thoughts and feelings a turmoil. She averted hereyes and began to disengage herself from Han's embrace. In the next second sheturned and rushed from the cabin.
　　Han silently looked after her as she left the room. He then became acutelyaware of the very curious Wookiee whose head was poking from the ceiling.
　　"Okay, Chewie!" he bellowed. "Give me a hand with this valve."
　　The fog, dispersed by a torrent of rain, snaked around the swamp in diaphanousswirls. Scooting along amid the pounding rain was a single R2 droid looking for hismaster.
　　Artoo-Detoo's sensing devices were busily sending impulses to his electronicnerve ends. At the slightest sound, his auditory systems reacted-perhapsoverreacted-and sent information to the robot's nervous computer brain.
　　It was too wet for Artoo in this murky jungle. He aimed his optical sensors inthe direction of a strange little mud house on the edge of a dark lake. The robot,overtaken by an almost-human perception of loneliness, moved closer to the windowof the tiny abode. Artoo extended his utility feet toward the window and peekedinside. He hoped no one inside noticed the slight shiver of his barrel-shaped form orheard his nervous little electronic whimper.
　　Somehow Luke Skywalker managed to squeeze inside the miniature house,where everything within was perfectly scaled to its tiny resident. Luke satcross-legged on the dried mud floor in the living room, careful not to bang his skullagainst the low ceiling. There was a table in front of him and he could see a fewcontainers holding what appeared to be hand-written scrolls.
　　The wrinkle-faded creature was in his kitchen, next to the living room, busilyconcocting an incredible meal. From where Luke sat he could see the little cookstirring steaming pots, chopping this, shredding that, scattering herbs over all, andscurrying back and forth to put platters on the table in front of the youth.
　　Fascinated as he was by this bustling activity, Luke was growing very impatient.As the creature made one of his frantic runs into the living room area, Luke remindedhis host, "I told you, I'm not hungry."
　　"Patience," the creature said, as he scuttled back into the steamy kitchen."It's time to eat."
　　Luke tried to be polite. "Look," he said, "it smells good. I'm sure it'sdelicious. But I don't know why we can't see Yoda now."
　　"It's the Jedi's time to eat, too," the creature answered.
　　But Luke was eager to be on his way. "Will it take long to get there? How faris he?"
　　"Not far, not far. Be patient. Soon you will see him. Why wish you becomea Jedi?"
　　"Because of my father, I guess," Luke answered, as he reflected that he neverreally knew his father that well. In truth his deepest kinship with his father wasthrough the lightsaber Ben had entrusted to him.
　　Luke noticed the curious look in the creature's eyes as he mentioned his father."Oh, your father," the being said, sitting down to begin his vast meal. "A powerfulJedi was he. Powerful Jedi."
　　The youth wondered if the creature were mocking him. "How could you knowmy father?" he asked a little angrily. "You don't even know who I am." Heglanced around at the bizarre room and shook his head. "I don't know what I'mdoing here´"
　　Then he noticed that the creature had turned away from him and was talking to acorner of the room. This really is the final straw, Luke thought. Now thisimpossible creature is talking to thin air!
　　"No good is this," the creature was saying irritably. "This will not do. Icannot teach him. The boy has no patience!"
　　Luke's head spun in the direction the creature was facing. Cannot teach. Nopatience. Bewildered, he still saw no one there. Then the truth of the situationgradually became as plain to him as the deep lines on the little creature's face.Already he was being teased-and by none other than Yoda himself!
　　From the empty corner of the room, Luke heard the gentle, wise voice of BenKenobi responding to Yoda. "He will learn patience," Ben said.
　　"Much anger in him," the dwarfish Jedi teacher persisted. "Like in his father."
　　"We've discussed this before," Kenobi said.
　　Luke could no longer wait. "I can be a Jedi," he interrupted. It meant morethan anything else to him to become a part of the noble band that had championed thecauses of justice and peace. "I'm ready, Ben´Ben´" The youth called to hisinvisible mentor, looking about the room in hopes of finding him. But all he sawwas Yoda sitting across from him at the table.
　　"Ready are you?" the skeptical Yoda asked. "What know you of ready? Ihave trained Jedi for eight hundred years. My own counsel I'll keep on who is to betrained."
　　"Why not me?" Luke asked, insulted by Yoda's insinuation.
　　"To become a Jedi," Yoda said gravely, "takes the deepest commitment, the mostserious mind."
　　"He can do it," Ben's voice said in defense of the youth.
　　Looking toward the invisible Kenobi, Yoda pointed at Luke. "This one I havewatched a long time. All his life has he looked away´to the horizon, to the sky, tothe future. Never his mind on where he was, on what he was doing. Adventure,excitement." Yoda shot a glaring look at Luke. "A Jedi craves not these things!"
　　Luke tried to defend his past. "I have followed my feelings."
　　"You are reckless!" the Jedi Master shouted.
　　"He will learn," came the soothing voice of Kenobi.
　　"He's too old," Yoda argued. "Yes. Too old, too set in his ways to start thetraining."
　　Luke thought he heard a subtle softening in Yoda's voice. Perhaps there wasstill a chance to sway him. "I've learned much," Luke said. He couldn't give upnow. He had come too far, endured too much, lost too much for that.
　　Yoda seemed to look right through Luke as he spoke those words, as if trying todetermine how much he had learned. He turned to the invisible Kenobi again."Will he finish what he begins?" Yoda asked.
　　"We've come this far," was the answer. "He is our only hope."
　　"I will not fail you," Luke said to both Yoda and Ben. "I'm not afraid." And,indeed, at that moment, the young Skywalker felt he could face anything without fear.
　　But Yoda was not so optimistic. "You will be, my young one," he warned.The Jedi Master turned slowly to face Luke as a strange little smile appeared on hisblue face. "Heh. You will be."

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
    

The Empire Strikes Back
IX

　　Only one being in the entire universe could instill fear in the dark spirit of Darth Vader.As he stood, silent and alone in his dim chamber, the Dark Lord of Sith waited for avisit from his own dreaded master. 
　　As he waited, his Imperial Star Destroyer floated through a vast ocean of stars.No one on his ship would have dared disturb Darth Vader in his private cubicle. Butif they had, they might have detected a slight trembling in that black-cloaked frame.And there might even have been a hint of terror to be seen upon his visage, hadanyone been able to see through his concealing black breath mask.
　　But no one approached, and Vader remained motionless as he kept his lonely,patient vigil. Soon a strange electronic whine broke the dead silence of the room anda flickering light began to glimmer on the Dark Lord's cloak. Vader immediatelybowed deeply in homage to his royal master.
　　The visitor arrived in the form of a hologram that materialized before Vader andtowered above him. The three-dimensional figure was clad in simple robes and itsface was concealed behind an enormous hood.
　　When the hologram of the Galactic Emperor finally spoke, it did so with a voiceeven deeper than Vader's. The Emperor's presence was awesome enough, but thesound of his voice sent a thrill of terror coursing through Vader's powerful frame."You may rise, my servant," the Emperor commanded.
　　Immediately Vader straightened up. But he did not dare gaze into his master'sface, and instead cast his eyes down at his own black boots.
　　"What is thy bidding, my master?" Vader asked with all the solemnity of a priestattending his god.
　　"There is a grave disturbance in the Force," the Emperor said.
　　"I have felt it," the Dark Lord replied solemnly.
　　The Emperor emphasized the danger as he continued. "Our situation is mostprecarious. We have a new enemy who could bring about our destruction."
　　"Our destruction? Who?"
　　"The son of Skywalker. You must destroy him, or he will be our undoing."
　　Skywalker!
　　The thought was impossible. How could the Emperor be concerned with thisinsignificant youth?
　　"He's not a Jedi," Vader reasoned. "He's just a boy. Obi-wan could not havetaught him so much that-"
　　the Emperor broke in. "The Force is strong in him," he insisted. "He must bedestroyed."
　　The Dark Lord reflected for a moment. Perhaps there was another way to dealwith the boy, a way that might benefit the Imperial cause. "If he could be turned, hewould be a powerful ally," Vader suggested.
　　Silently the Emperor considered the possibility.
　　After a moment, he spoke again. "Yes´yes," he said thoughtfully. "Hewould be a great asset. Can it be done?"
　　For the first time in their meeting, Vader lifted his head to face his master directly."He will join us," he answered firmly, "or die, my master."
　　With that, the encounter had come to an end. Vader kneeled before the GalacticEmperor, who passed his hand over his obedient servant. In the next moment, theholographic image had completely disappeared, leaving Darth Vader alone toformulate what would be, perhaps, his most subtle plan of attack.
　　The indicator lights on the control panel cast an eerie glow through the quietcockpit of the Millennium Falcon. They softly lit Princess Leia's face as she sat inthe pilot's chair, thinking about Han. Deep in thought, she ran her hand along thecontrol panel in front of her. She knew something was churned up within her, butwasn't certain that she was willing to acknowledge it. And yet, could she deny it?
　　Suddenly her attention was attracted by a flurry of movement outside the cockpitwindow. A dark shape, at first too swift and too shadowy to identify, streakedtoward the Millennium Falcon. In an instant it had attached itself to the ship's frontwindow with something that looked like a soft suction cup. Cautiously Leia movedforward for a closer look at the black smudgelike shape. As she peered out thewindow, a set of large yellow eyes suddenly popped open and stared right at her.
　　Leia started in shock and stumbled backward into the pilot's seat. As she triedto compose herself, she heard the scurry of feet and an inhuman screech. Suddenlythe black shape and its yellow eyes disappeared into the darkness of the asteroid cave.
　　She caught her breath, leaped up out of the chair, and raced to the ship's hold.
　　The Falcon's crew was finishing its work on the ship's power system. As theyworked, the lights flickered weakly, then came on and stayed on brightly. Hanfinished reconnecting the wires, and began setting a floor panel back in place whilethe Wookiee watched See-Threepio complete his work at the control panel.
　　"Everything checks out here," Threepio reported. "If I might say so, I believethat should do it."
　　Just then, the princess rushed breathlessly into the hold.
　　"There's something out there!" Leia cried.
　　Han looked up from his work. "Where?"
　　"Outside," she said, "in the cave."
　　As she spoke, they heard a sharp banging against the ship's hull. Chewbaccalooked up and let out a loud bark of concern.
　　"Whatever it sounds like it's trying to get in," Threepio observed worriedly.
　　The captain began to move out of the hold. "I'm going to see what it is," heannounced.
　　"Are you crazy?" Leia looked at him in astonishment.
　　The banging was getting louder.
　　"Look, we just got this bucket going again," Han explained. "I'm not about tolet some varmint tear it apart."
　　Before Leia could protest, he had grabbed a breath mask off a supply rack andpulled it down over his head. As Han walked out, the Wookiee hurried up behindhim and grabbed his own face mask. Leia realized that, as part of the crew, she wasduty-bound to join then.
　　"If there's more than one," she told the captain, "you're going to need help."
　　Han looked at her affectionately as she removed a third breath mask and placed itover her lovely, but determined, face.
　　Then the three of them rushed out, leaving the protocol droid to complainpitifully to the empty hold: "But that leave me here all alone!"
　　The darkness outside the Millennium Falcon was thick and dank. It surroundedthe three figures as they carefully moved around their ship. With each step theyheard unsettling noises, squishing sounds, that echoes through the dripping cavern.
　　It was too dark to tell where the creature might be hiding. They movedcautiously, peering as well as they could into the deep gloom. Suddenly Chewbacca,who could see better in the dark than either his captain or the princess, emitted amuffled bark and pointed toward the thing that moved along the Falcon's hull.
　　A shapeless leathery mass scurried over the top of the ship, apparently startled bythe Wookiee's yelp. Han leveled his blaster at the creature and blasted the thing witha laser bolt. The black shape screeched, stumbled, then fell off the spaceship,landing with a thud at the princess's feet.
　　She leaned over to get a better look at the black mass. "Looks like some kindof Mynock," she told Han and Chewbacca.
　　Han glanced quickly around the dark tunnel. "There will be more of them," hepredicted. "They always travel in groups. And there's nothing they like better thanto attach themselves to ships. Just what we need right now!"
　　But Leia was more distracted by the consistency of the tunnel floor. The tunnelitself struck her as peculiar; the smell of the place was unlike that of any cave she hadever known. The floor was especially cold and seemed to cling her feet.
　　As she stamped her foot against the floor, she felt the ground give a bit beneathher heel. "This asteroid has the strangest consistency," she said. "Look at theground. It's not like rock at all."
　　Han knelt to inspect the floor more closely and noted how pliable it was. As hestudied the floor, he tried to make out how far it reached and to see the contours of thecave.
　　"There's an awful lot of moisture in here," he said. He stood up and aimed hishand blaster at the far side of the cave, then fired toward the sound of a screechingMynock in the distance; as soon as he shot the bolt, the entire cavern began to shakeand the ground began to buckle. "I was afraid of that," he shouted. "Let's get outof here!"
　　Chewbacca barked in agreement, and bolted toward the Millennium Falcon.Close behind him, Leia and Han rushed toward the ship, covering their faces as aswarm of Mynocks flew past them. They reached the Falcon and ran up theplatform into the ship. As soon as they were on board, Chewbacca closed the hatchafter them, careful that none of the Mynocks could slip inside.
　　"Chewie, fire her up!" Han yelled as he and Leia darted through the ship's hold."We're getting out of here!"
　　Chewbacca hurriedly lumbered to his seat in the cockpit, while Han rushed tocheck the scopes on the hold control panel.
　　Leia, running to keep up, warned, "They would spot us long before we could getup to speed."
　　Han didn't seem to hear her. He checked the controls, then turned to rush backto the cockpit. But as he passed her, his comment made it clear, he had heard everyword. "There's no time to discuss this in the committee."
　　And with that he was gone, racing to his pilot's chair, where he began workingthe engine throttles. The next minute the whine of the main engines resoundedthrough the ship.
　　But Leia hurried after him. "I am not a committee," she shouted indignantly.
　　It didn't appear that he heard her. The sudden cave-quake was beginning tosubside, but Han was determined to get his ship out-and out fast.
　　Leia began to strap herself into her seat.
　　"You can't make the jump to light-speed in the asteroid field," she called overthe engine roar.
　　Solo grinned at her over his shoulder. "Strap yourself in, sweetheart," he said,"we're taking off!"
　　"But the tremors have stopped!"
　　Han was not about to stop his ship now. Already the craft moved forward,quickly passing the craggy walls of the tunnel. Suddenly Chewbacca barked inhorror as he stared out the front windscreen.
　　Directly in front of them stood a jagged white row of stalactites and stalagmitescompletely surrounding the cave's entrance.
　　"I see it, Chewie," Han shouted. He pulled hard on the throttle, and theMillennium Falcon surged forward. "Hang on!"
　　"The cave is collapsing," Leia screamed as she saw the entrance ahead growsmaller.
　　"This is no cave."
　　"What?!"
　　Threepio began jabbering in terror. "Oh, my, no! We're doomed. Good-bye,Mistress Leia. Good-bye, Captain."
　　Leia's mouth dropped open as she stared at the rapidly approaching tunnelopening.
　　Han was right; they were not in a cave. As they came nearer the opening, itwas apparent that the white mineral formations were giant teeth. And it was veryapparent that, as they soared out of this giant mouth, those teeth were beginning toclose!
　　Chewbacca roared.
　　"Bank, Chewie!"
　　it was an impossible maneuver. But Chewbacca responded immediately andonce again accomplished the impossible. He rolled the Millennium Falcon steeplyon its side, tilting the ship as he accelerated it between two of those gleaming whitefangs. And not a second too soon, for just as the Falcon flew from that living tunnel,the jaws clamped shut.
　　The Falcon sped through the rocky crevice of the asteroid, pursued by a titanicspace slug. The enormous pink bulk didn't intend to lose its tasty meal and pusheditself out of its crater to swallow the escaping ship. But the monster was too slow.Within another moment the freighter had soared out, away from the slimy pursuer andinto space. As it did so, the ship plunged into yet another danger: The MillenniumFalcon had re-entered the deadly asteroid field.
　　Luke was panting, nearly out of breath in this, the latest of his endurance tests.His Jedi taskmaster had ordered him out on a marathon run through the dense growthof his planet's jungle. Not only had Yoda sent Luke on the exhausting run, but hehad invited himself along for the ride. As the Jedi-in-training puffed and sweated hisway on his rugged race, the little Jedi Master observed his progress from a pouchstrapped to Luke's back.
　　Yoda shook his head and muttered to himself disparagingly about the youth'slack of endurance.
　　By the time they returned to the clearing where Artoo-Detoo was patientlywaiting, Luke's exhaustion had nearly overcome him. As he stumbled into theclearing, Yoda had yet another test planned for him.
　　Before Luke had caught his breath, the little Jedi on his back tossed a metal barin front of Luke's eyes. In an instant Luke ignited his laser sword and swungfrantically at the bar. But he was not fast enough, and the bar fell-untouched-ontothe ground with a thud. Luke collapsed on the wet earth in complete exhaustion. "Ican't," he moaned, "´too tired."
　　Yoda, who showed no sign of sympathy, retorted, "It would be in seven pieces,were you a Jedi."
　　But Luke knew that he was not a Jedi-not yet, anyway. And the rigoroustraining program devised by Yoda had left him nearly out of breath. "I thought I wasin good shape," he gasped.
　　"Yes, but by what standard, ask I?" the little instructor quizzed. "Forget yourold measures. Unlearn, unlearn!"
　　Luke truly felt ready to unlearn all his old ways and willing to free himself tolearn all this Jedi Master had to teach. It was rigorous training, but as time passed,Luke's strength and abilities increased and even his skeptical little master began to seehope. But it was not easy.
　　Yoda spent long hours lecturing his student about the ways of the Jedi. As theysat under the trees near Yoda's little house, Luke listened intently to all the master'stales of lessons. And as Luke listened, Yoda chewed on his Gimer Stick, a shorttwig with three small branches at the far end.
　　And there were physical tests of all kinds. In particular, Luke was workinghard to perfect his leap. Once he felt ready to show Yoda his improvement. As themaster sat on a log next to a wide pond, he heard the loud rustling of someoneapproaching through the vegetation.
　　Suddenly Luke appeared on the other side of the pond, coming toward the waterat a run. As he approached the shore, he made a running leap toward Yoda, risinghigh above the water as he hurtled himself through the air. But he fell short of theother side and landed in the water with a loud splash, completely soaking Yoda.
　　Yoda's blue lips turned down in disappointment.
　　But Luke was not about to give up. He was determined to become a Jedi and,no matter how foolish he might feel in the attempt, would pass every test Yoda set forhim. So he didn't complain when Yoda told him to stand on his head. A bitawkwardly at first, Luke inverted his body and, after a few wobbly moments, wasstanding firmly on his hands. It seemed he had been in this position for hours, but itwas less difficult than it would have been before his training. His concentration hadimproved so much that he was able to maintain a perfect balance-even with Yodaperched on the soles of his feet.
　　But that was only part of the test. Yoda signaled Luke by tapping on his legwith his Gimer Stick. Slowly, carefully, and with full concentration, Luke raised onehand off the ground. His body wavered slightly with the weight shift-but Lukekept his balance, and, concentrating, started to lift a small rock in front of him. Butsuddenly a whistling and beeping R2 unit came rushing up to his youthful master.
　　Luke collapsed, and Yoda jumped clear of his falling body. Annoyed, theyoung Jedi student asked, "Oh, Artoo, what is it?"
　　Artoo-Detoo rolled about in frantic circles as he tried to communicate hismessage through a series of electronic chirps. Luke watched as the droid scooted tothe edge of the swamp. He hurried to follow and then saw what it was the littlerobot was trying to tell him.
　　Standing at the water's edge, Luke saw that all but the tip of the X-wing's nosehad disappeared beneath the water's surface.
　　"Oh, no," moaned Luke. "We'll never get it out now."
　　Yoda had joined them, and stamped his foot in irritation at Luke's remark. "Sosure are you?" Yoda scolded. "Tried have you? Always with you it can't be done.Hear you nothing that I say?" His little wrinkled face puckered with a furious scowl.
　　Luke glanced at his master, then looked doubtfully toward the sunken ship.
　　"Master," he said skeptically, "lifting rocks is one thing, but this is a littledifferent." Yoda was really angry now. "No! No different!" he shouted. "Thedifferences are in your mind. Throw them out! No longer of use are they to you."
　　Luke trusted his master. If Yoda said this could be done, then maybe he shouldtry. He looked at the downed X-wing and readied himself for maximumconcentration. "Okay," he said at last, "I'll give it a try."
　　Again he had spoken the wrong words. "No," Yoda said impatiently. "Try not.Do, do. Or do not. There is no try."
　　Luke close his eyes. He tried to envision the contours, the shape, to feel theweight of his X-wing fighter. And he concentrated on the movement it would makeas it rose from the murky waters.
　　As he concentrated, he began to hear the waters churn and gurgle, and then beginto bubble with the emerging nose of the X-wing. The tip of the fighter was slowlylifting from the water, and it hovered there for a moment, then sank back beneath thesurface with a loud splash.
　　Luke was drained and had to gasp for breath. "I can't," he said dejectedly."It's too big."
　　"Size has no meaning," Yoda insisted. "It matters not. Look at me. Judgeme by my size, do you?"
　　Luke, chastened, just shook his head.
　　"And well you shouldn't," the Jedi Master advised. "For my ally is the Force.And a powerful ally it is. Life creates it and make it grow. Its energy surrounds usand binds us. Luminous beings we are, not this crude matter," he said as he pinchedLuke's skin.
　　Yoda made a grand sweeping gesture to indicate the vastness of the universeabout him. "Feel it you must. Feel the flow. Feel the Force around you. Here,"he said, as he pointed, "between you and me and that tree and that rock."
　　While Yoda gave his explanation of the Force, Artoo spun his domed headaround, trying without success to register this "Force" on his scanners. He whistledand beeped in bafflement.
　　"Yes, everywhere," Yoda continued, ignoring the little droid, "waiting to be feltand used. Yes, even between this land the that ship!"
　　Then Yoda turned and looked at the swamp, and as he did the water began toswirl. Slowly, from the gently bubbling waters, the nose of the fighter appearedagain.
　　Luke gaped in astonishment as the X-wing gracefully rose from its watery tomband moved majestically toward the shore.
　　He silently vowed never to use the word "impossible" again. For there,standing on his tree root pedestal, was tiny Yoda, effortlessly gliding the ship from thewater onto the shore. It was a sight that Luke could scarcely believe. But he knewthat it was a potent example of Jedi mastery over the Force.
　　Artoo, equally astounded but not so philosophical, issued a series of loudwhistles, then bolted off to hide behind some giant roots.
　　The X-wing seemed to float onto the beach, then gently came to a stop.
　　Luke was humbled by the feat he had witnessed and approached Yoda in awe."I´" he began, dazzled. "I don't believe it."
　　"That," Yoda stated emphatically, "is why you fail."
　　Bewildered, Luke shook his head, wondering if he would ever rise to the stationof a Jedi.
　　Bounty hunters! Among the most reviled of the galaxy's inhabitants, this classof amoral moneygrubbers included members of every species. It was a repellentoccupation, and it often attracted repellent creatures to its fold. Some of thesecreatures had been summoned by Darth Vader and now stood with him on the bridgeof his Imperial Star Destroyer.
　　Admiral Piett observed this motley group from a distance as he stood with one ofVader's captains. They saw that the Dark Lord had invited a particularly bizarreassortment of fortune hunters, including Bossk, whose soft, baggy face gawked atVader with huge bloodshot orbs. Next to Bossk stood Zuckuss and Dengar, twohuman types, battle-scarred by innumerable, unspeakable adventures. A batteredand tarnished chrome-colored droid named IG-88 was also with the group, standingnext to the notorious Boba Fett. A human bounty hunter, Fett was known for hisextremely ruthless methods. He was dressed in a weapon-covered, armoredspacesuit, the kind worn by a group of evil warriors defeated by the Jedi Knightsduring the Clone Wars. A few braided scalps completed his unsavory image. Thevery sight of Boba Fett sent a shudder of revulsion through the admiral. "Bounty hunters!" Piett said with disdain. "Why should he bring them into this?The Rebels won't escape us."
　　Before the captain could reply, a sip's controller rushed up to the admiral."Sir," he said urgently, "we have a priority signal from the Star Destroyer Avenger."
　　Admiral Piett read the signal, then hurried to inform Darth Vader. As heapproached the group, Piett heard the last of Vader's instructions to them. "Therewill be a substantial reward for the one who finds the Millennium Falcon," he wassaying. "You are free to use any methods necessary, but I want proof. Nodisintegrations."
　　The Sith Lord stopped his briefing as Admiral Piett hurried to his side.
　　"My lord," the admiral whispered ecstatically, "we have them!"

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
    

The Empire Strikes Back
X

　　The Avenger had spotted the Millennium Falcon the moment the freighter shot out ofthe enormous asteroid.
　　From that moment, the Imperial ship renewed its pursuit of the freighter with ablinding barrage of fire. Undaunted by the steady rain of asteroids on its massivehull, the Star Destroyer relentlessly followed the smaller ship.
　　The Millennium Falcon, far more maneuverable than the other ship, dartedaround the larger asteroids as they came rocketing toward it. The Falcon wassucceeding in holding its lead in front of the Avenger, but it was clear that the steadilypursuing ship was not about to abandon the chase.
　　Suddenly a gigantic asteroid appeared in the Millennium Falcon's path, rushingtoward the freighter at incredible speed. The ship quickly banked out of the way,and the asteroid hurtled past it, only to explode harmlessly against the Avenger's hull.
　　Han Solo glimpsed the explosion's flare through the front window of his ship'scockpit. The craft that followed them seemed absolutely invulnerable; but he had notime to reflect on the differences between the ships. It took everything in his powerto maintain control of the Falcon as it was pelted by Imperial cannon fire.
　　Princess Leia tensely watched the asteroids and cannon fire flaring in theblackness of space outside the cockpit windows. Her fingers had tightened on thearms of her chair. Silently she hoped against hope that they would emerge from thischase alive.
　　Carefully following the bleeping images on a tracking scope, See-Threepioturned to Han. "I can see the edge of the asteroid field, sir," he reported.
　　"Good," Han replied. "Soon as we're clear, we'll kick this baby intohyperdrive." He was confident that within moments the pursuing Star Destroyerwould be left light-years behind. The repairs in the freighter's light-speed systemhad been completed, and there was nothing left to do now but get the ship free of theasteroid field and into space, where it could blast away to safety.
　　There was an excited Wookiee bark as Chewbacca, looking out a cockpit window,saw that the asteroid density was already decreasing. But their escape could not yetbe completed, for the Avenger was closing in, and the bolts from its laser cannonsbombarded the Falcon, making it lurch and carom to one side.
　　Han rapidly adjusted the controls and brought his ship back on an even keel.And in the next instant, the Falcon zoomed out of the asteroid field and entered thepeaceful, star-dotted silence of deep space. Chewbacca whined, joyful that theywere at last out of the deadly field-but eager to leave the Star Destroyer far behind.
　　"I'm with you, Chewie," Han responded. "Let's vacate the area. Stand by forlight-speed. This time they get the surprise. Hang on´"
　　Everyone braced himself as Han pulled back on the light-speed throttle. But itwas the crew of the Millennium Falcon, and mostly the captain himself that got thesurprise as, once again-
　　-nothing happened.
　　Nothing!
　　Han frantically pulled back the throttle again.
　　The ship maintained its sublight speed.
　　"This isn't fair!" he exclaimed, beginning to panic.
　　Chewbacca was furious. It was rare that he lost his temper with his friend andcaptain. But now he was exasperated and roared his fury in angry Wookiee growlsand barks.
　　"Couldn't be," Han replied defensively, as he looked at his computer screens andquickly noted their readings. "I checked the transfer circuits."
　　Chewbacca barked again.
　　"I tell you, this time it's not my fault. I'm sure I checked it."
　　Leia sighed deeply. "No light-speed?" in a tone that indicated she had expectedthis catastrophe, too.
　　"Sir," See-Threepio interjected, "we've lost the rear deflector shield. One moredirect hit on the back quarter and we're done for."
　　"Well," Leia said, as she glared at the captain of the Millennium Falcon, "whatnow?"
　　Han realized he had only one choice. There was no time to plan or to checkcomputer readouts, not with the Avenger already out of the asteroid field and rapidlygaining on them. He had to make a decision based on instinct and hope. Theyreally had no alternative. "Sharp bank, Chewie," he ordered and pulled back a lever as he looked at his copilot."Let's turn this bucket around."
　　Not even Chewbacca could fathom what Han had in mind. He barked inbewilderment-perhaps he hadn't heard the order quite right.
　　"You heard me!" Han yelled. "Turn around! Full power front shield!" Thistime there was no mistaking his command and, though Chewbacca couldn'tcomprehend the suicidal maneuver, he obeyed.
　　The princess was flabbergasted. "You're going to attack them!" she stammeredin disbelief. There wasn't a chance of survival now, she thought. Was it possiblethat Han really was crazy?
　　Threepio, after running some calculation through his computer brain, turned toHan Solo. "Sir, if I might point out, the odds of surviving a direct assault on anImperial Star Destroyer are-"
　　Chewbacca snarled at the golden droid, and the immediately shut up. No oneon board really wanted to hear the statistics, especially since the Falcon was alreadybanking into a steep turn to begin its course into the erupting storm of Imperialcannon fire.
　　Solo concentrated intently on his flying. It was all he could do to avoid thebarrage of flak bursts rocketing toward the Falcon from the Imperial ship. Thefreighter bobbed and weaved as Han, still heading directly for the Star Destroyer,steered to avoid the bolts.
　　No one on his tiny ship had the slightest idea what his plan might be.
　　"He's coming in too low!" the Imperial deck officer shouted, though he scarcelybelieved what he was seeing.
　　Captain Needa and the Star Destroyer crew rushed the to Avenger's bridge towatch the suicidal approach of the Millennium Falcon, while alarms blared all overthe vast Imperial ship. A small freighter could not do much damage if it collidedagainst a Star Destroyer's hull; but if it smashed through the bridge windows, thecontrol deck would be littered with corpses.
　　The panicked tracking officer reported his sighting. "We're going to collide!"
　　"Shields up?" Captain Needa asked. "He must be insane!"
　　"Look out!" the deck officer yelled.
　　The Falcon was headed straight for the bridge window and the Avenger crew andofficers fell to the floor in terror. But at the last instant, the freighter veered upsharply. Then-
　　Captain Needa and his men slowly lifted their head. All they saw outside thebridge windows was a peaceful ocean of stars.
　　"Track them," Captain Needa ordered. "They may come around for anotherpass."
　　The tracking officer attempted to find the freighter on his scopes. But there wasnothing to find.
　　"That's strange," he muttered.
　　"What is it?" Needa asked, walking over to look at the tracking monitors forhimself.
　　"The ship doesn't appear on any of our scopes."
　　The captain was perplexed. "It couldn't have disappeared. Could a ship thatsmall have a cloaking device?"
　　"No, sir," the deck officer answered. "Maybe they went into light-speed at thelast minute."
　　Captain Needa felt his anger mounting at about the same rate as hisbefuddlement. "Then why did they attack? They could have gone into hyperspacewhen they cleared the asteroid field."
　　"Well, there's no trace of them, sir, no matter how they did it," the trackingofficer replied, still unable to locate the Millennium Falcon on his viewers. "Theonly logical explanation is that they went into light-speed."
　　The captain was staggered. How had that crate of a ship eluded him?
　　An aide approached. "Sir, Lord Vader demands an update on the pursuit," hereported. "What should he be told?"
　　Needa braced himself. Letting the Millennium Falcon get away when it was soclose was an unforgivable error, and he knew he had to face Vader and report hisfailure. He felt resigned to whatever punishment waited in store for him.
　　"I am responsible for this," he said. "Get the shuttle ready. When werendezvous with Lord Vader, I will apologize to him myself. Turn around and scanthe area one more time."
　　Then, like a living behemoth, the great Avenger slowly began to turn; but therewas still no sign of the Millennium Falcon.
　　The two glowing balls hovered like alien fireflies above Luke's body lyingmotionless in the mud. Standing protectively next to his fallen master, a littlebarrel-shaped droid periodically extended a mechanical appendage to swat at thedancing objects as if they were mosquitoes. But the hovering balls of light leapedjust out of the robot's reach.
　　Artoo-Detoo leaned over Luke's inert body and whistled in an effort to revivehim. But Luke, stunned unconscious by the charges of these energy balls, did notrespond. The robot turned to Yoda, who was sitting calmly on a tree stump, andangrily began to beep and scold the little Jedi Master.
　　Getting no sympathy from him, Artoo turned back to Luke. His electroniccircuits told him there was no use trying to wake Luke with his little noises. Anemergency rescue system was activated within his metal hull and Artoo extended asmall metal electrode and rested it on Luke's chest. Uttering a quiet beep of concern,Artoo generated a mild electrical charge, just strong enough to jolt Luke back toconsciousness. The youth's chest heaved, and he awoke with a start.
　　Looking dazed, the young Jedi student shook his head clear. He looked aroundhim, rubbing his shoulders to ease the ache from Yoda's seeker balls' attack.Glimpsing the seekers still suspended over him, Luke scowled. Then he heard Yodachucking merrily nearby, and turned his glare on him.
　　"Concentration, heh?" Yoda laughed, his lined face creased with enjoyment."Concentration!"
　　Luke was in no mood to return his smile. "I though those seekers were set forstun!" he exclaimed angrily.
　　"That they are," the amused Yoda answered.
　　"They're a lot stronger than I'm used to." Luke's shoulder ached painfully.
　　"That would not matter were the Force flowing through you," Yoda reasoned."Higher you'd jump! Faster you'd move!" he exclaimed. "Open yourself to theForce you must."
　　The youth was beginning to feel exasperated with his arduous training, althoughhe had only been at it a short time. He had felt very close to knowing theForce-but so many times he had failed and had realized how very far away it wasfrom him still. But now Yoda's goading words made him spring to his feet. Hewas tired of waiting so long for this power, weary at his lack of success, andincreasingly infuriated by Yoda's cryptic teachings.
　　Luke grabbed his laser sword from the mud and quickly ignited it.
　　Terrified, Artoo-Detoo scurried away to safety.
　　"I'm open to it now!" Luke shouted. "I feel it. Come on, you little flyingblaster!" With fire in his eyes, Luke poised his weapon and moved toward theseekers. Immediately they zipped away and retreated to hover over Yoda.
　　"No, no," the Jedi Master scolded, shaking his hoary head. "This will not do.Anger is what you feel."
　　"But I feel the Force!" Luke protested vehemently.
　　"Anger, anger, fear, aggression!" Yoda warned. "The dark side of the Force arethey. Easily they flow´quick to join in a fight. Beware, beware, beware of them.A heavy price is paid for the power they bring."
　　Luke lowered his sword and stared at Yoda in confusion. "Price?" he asked."What do you mean?"
　　"The dark side beckons," Yoda said dramatically. "But if once start you downthe dark path, forever will it dominate your destiny. Consume you it will´as it didObi-wan's apprentice."
　　Luke nodded. He knew who Yoda meant. "Lord Vader," he said. After hethought for a moment, Luke asked, "Is the dark side stronger?"
　　"No, no. Easier, quicker, more seductive."
　　"But how am I to know the good side from the bad?" he asked, puzzled.
　　"You will know," Yoda answered. "When you are at peace´calm, passive. AJedi uses the Force for knowledge. Never for attack."
　　"But tell me why-" Luke began.
　　"No! There is no why. Nothing more will I tell you. Clear your mind ofquestions. Quiet now be-at peace´" Yoda's voice trailed off, but his words had ahypnotic effect on Luke. The young student stopped protesting and began to feelpeaceful, his body and mind relaxing.
　　"Yes´" Yoda murmured, "calm."
　　Slowly Luke's eyes closed as he let his mind clear of distracting thoughts.
　　"Passive´"
　　Luke heard Yoda's soothing voice as it entered the receptive darkness of hismind. He willed himself to travel along with the master's words to wherever theymight lead.
　　"Let yourself go´"
　　When Yoda perceived that Luke was as relaxed as the young student could be atthis stage, he made the tiniest of gestures. As he did, the two seeker balls above hishead shot toward Luke, firing stun bolts as they moved.
　　In that instant Luke sprang to life and ignited his laser sword. He leaped to hisfeet and, with pure concentration, began deflecting the bolts as they spun toward him.Fearlessly he faced the attack, and moved and dodged with extreme grace. His leapsinto the air, as he jumped to meet the bolts, were higher than any he had achievedbefore. Luke wasted not a single motion as he concentrated only on every bolt as itsped his way.
　　Then, as suddenly as it had begun, the seeker attack was over. The glowingballs returned to hover on either side of their master's head.
　　Artoo-Detoo, the ever-patient observer, let out an electronic sigh and shook hismetal dome-head.
　　Grinning proudly, Luke looked toward Yoda.
　　"Much progress do you make, young one," the Jedi Master confirmed."Stronger do you grow." But the little instructor would not compliment him morethan that.
　　Luke was full of pride at his marvelous achievement. He watched Yoda,expectantly waiting for further praise from him. But Yoda did not move or speak.He sat calmly-and then two more seeker balls floated up behind him and moved intoformation with the first two.
　　Luke Skywalker's grin began to melt away.
　　A pair of white-armored stormtroopers lifted Captain Needa's lifeless form fromthe floor of Darth Vader's Imperial Star Destroyer.
　　Needa had known that death was the likely consequence of his failure to capturethe Millennium Falcon. He had known, too, that he had to report the situation toVader and make his formal apology. But there was no mercy for failure among theImperial military. And Vader, in disgust, had signaled for the captain's death.
　　The Dark Lord turned, and Admiral Piett and two of his captains came to reporttheir findings. "Lord Vader," Piett said, "our ships have completed their scan of thearea and found nothing. The Millennium Falcon definitely went into light-speed.It's probably somewhere on the other side of the galaxy by now."
　　Vader hissed through his breath mask. "Alert all commands," he ordered."Calculate every possible destination along their last known trajectory and disbursethe fleet to search for them. Don't fail me again, Admiral, I've had quite enough!"
　　Admiral Piett thought of the Avenger's captain, whom he had just seen carriedout of the room like a sack of grin. And he remembered the excruciating demise ofAdmiral Ozzel. "Yes, my lord," he answered, trying to hide his fear. "We'll findthem."
　　Then the admiral turned to an aide. "Deploy the fleet," he instructed. As theaide moved to carry out his orders, a shadow of worry crossed the admiral's face.He was not at all certain that his luck would be any better than that of Ozzel or Needa.
　　Lord Vader's Imperial Star Destroyer regally moved off into space. Itsprotecting fleet of smaller craft hovered nearby as the Imperial armada left the StarDestroyer Avenger behind.
　　No one on the Avenger or in Vader's entire fleet had any idea how near they wereto their prey. As the Avenger glided off into space to continue its search, it carriedwith it, clinging unnoticed to one side of the huge bridge tower, a saucer-shapedfreighter ship-the Millennium Falcon.
　　Inside the Falcon's cockpit all was quiet. Han Solo had stopped his ship andshut down all systems so quickly that even the customarily talkative See-Threepiowas silent. The stood, not moving a rivet, a look of wonder frozen on his goldenface.
　　"You could have warned him before you shut him off," Princess Leia said,looking at the droid that stood motionless like a bronzed statue.
　　"Oh, so sorry!" Han said in mock concern. "Didn't mean to offend your droid.You think braking and shutting everything down in that amount of time is easy?"
　　Leia was dubious about Han's entire strategy. "I'm still not sure what you'veaccomplished."
　　He shrugged off her doubt. She'll find out soon enough, he thought; there justwasn't any other choice. He turned to his copilot. "Chewie, check the manualrelease on the landing claws."
　　The Wookiee barked, then pulled himself out of his chair and moved toward therear of the ship.
　　Leia watched as Chewbacca proceeded to disengage the landing claws so that theship could take off without mechanical delay.
　　Shaking her head incredulously, she turned to Han. "What do you have in mindfor your next move?"
　　"The fleet is finally breaking up," he answered as he pointed out a port window."I'm hoping they follow standard Imperial procedure and dump their garbage beforethey go into light-speed."
　　The princess reflected on this strategy for a moment, and then began to smile.This crazy man might know what he was doing after all. Impressed, she patted himon the head. "Not bad, hot shot, not bad. Then what?" "Then," Han said, "we have to find a safe port around here. Got any ideas?"
　　"That depends. Where are we?"
　　"Here," Han said, pointing to a configuration of small light points, "near theAnoat system."
　　Slipping out of her chair, Leia moved next to him for a better look at the screen.
　　"Funny," Han said after thinking for a moment, "I have the feeling I've been inthis area before. Let me check my logs."
　　"You keep logs?" Leia was more impressed by the minute. "My, howorganized," she teased.
　　"Well, sometimes," he answered as he hunted through the computer readout."Ah-ha, I knew it! Lando-now this should be interesting."
　　"I never heard of that system," said Leia.
　　"It's not a system. He's a man, Lando Calrissian. A gambler, con artist,all-around scoundrel," he paused long enough for the last word to sink in, and gavethe princess a wink, "´your kind of guy. The Bespin system. It's a fair distancebut reachable."
　　Leia looked at one of the computer monitor screens and read the data. "Amining colony," she noted.
　　"A Tibanna gas mine," Han added. "Lando won it in a sabacc match, or so heclaims. Lando and I go way back."
　　"Can you trust him?" Leia asked.
　　"No. But he has no love for the Empire, that much I know."
　　The Wookiee barked over the intercom.
　　Quickly responding, Han flicked some switches to bring new information to thecomputer screens, and then stretched to look out the cockpit window. "I see it,Chewie, I see it," he said. "Prepare the manual release." Then, turning to theprincess, Han said, "Here goes nothing, sweetheart." He leaned back in his chair andsmiled invitingly at her.
　　Leia shook her head, then grinned shyly and gave him a quick kiss. "You dohave your moments," she reluctantly admitted. "Not many, but you have them."
　　Han was getting used to the princess's left-handed compliments, and he couldn'tsay that he really minded them. More and more he was enjoying the fact that sheshared his own sarcastic sense of humor. And he was fairly sure that she wasenjoying it, too.
　　"Let 'er go, Chewie," he shouted gleefully.
　　The hatch on the underbelly of the Avenger yawned open. And as the Imperialgalactic cruiser zoomed into hyperspace, it spewed out its own belt of artificialasteroids-garbage and sections of irreparable machinery that scattered out into theblack void of space. Hidden among that trail of refuse, the Millennium Falcontumbled undetected off the side of the larger ship, and was left far behind as theAvenger streaked away.
　　Safe at last, Han Solo thought.
　　The Millennium Falcon ignited its ion engines, and raced off through the train ofdrifting space junk toward another system.
　　But concealed among that scattered debris was another ship.
　　And as the Falcon roared off to seek the Bespin system, this other ship ignited itsown engines. Boba Fett, the most notorious and dreaded bounty hunter in the galaxy,turned his small, elephant's head-shaped craft, Slave1, to begin its pursuit. For BobaFett had no intention of losing sight of the Millennium Falcon. Its pilot had too higha price on his head. And this was one reward that the fearsome bounty hunter wasquite determined to collect.
　　Luke felt that he was definitely progressing.
　　He ran through the jungle-with Yoda perched on his neck-and leaped withgazellelike grace over the profusion of foliage and tree roots growing throughout thebog.
　　Luke had at last begun to detach himself from the emotion of pride. He feltunburdened, and was finally open to experience fully the flow of the Force.
　　When his diminutive threw a sliver bar above Luke's head, the young Jedistudent reacted instantly. In a flash he turned to slice the bar into four shinysegments before it fell to the ground.
　　Yoda was pleased and smiled at Luke's accomplishment. "Four this time!The Force you feel."
　　But Luke was suddenly distracted. He sensed something dangerous, somethingevil. "Something's not right," he said to Yoda. "I feel danger´death."
　　He looked around him, trying to see what it was that emitted so powerful an aura.As he turned he saw a huge, tangled tree, it blackened bark dry and crumbling. Thebase of the tree was surrounded by a small pond of water, where the gigantic roots hadgrown to form the opening to a darkly sinister cave.
　　Luke gently lifted Yoda from his neck and set him on the ground. Transfixed,the Jedi student stared at the dark monstrosity. Breathing hard, he found himselfunable to speak.
　　"You brought me here purposely," Luke said at last.
　　Yoda sat on a tangled root and put his Gimer Stick in his mouth. Calmlylooking at Luke, he said nothing.
　　Luke shivered. "I feel cold," he said, still gazing at the tree.
　　"This tree is strong with the dark side of the Force. A servant of evil it is.Into it you must go."
　　Luke felt a tremor of apprehension. "What's in there?"
　　"Only what you take with you," Yoda said cryptically.
　　Luke looked warily at Yoda, and then at the tree. He silently resolved to takehis courage, his willingness to learn, and step within that darkness to face whatever itwas that awaited him. He would take nothing more than-
　　No. He would also bring his lightsaber.
　　Lighting his weapon, Luke stepped through the shallow waters of the pond andtoward the dark opening between those great and foreboding roots.
　　But the Jedi Master's voice stopped him.
　　"Your weapon," Yoda reproved. "You won't need it."
　　Luke paused and looked again at the tree. Go into that evil cave completelyunarmed? As skilled as Luke was becoming, he did not feel quite equal to that test.He gripped his saber tighter and shook his head.
　　Yoda shrugged and placidly gnawed his Gimer Stick.
　　Taking a deep breath, Luke cautiously stepped into the grotesque tree cave.
　　The dark inside the cave was so thick that Luke could feel it against his skin, soblack that the light thrown by his laser sword was quickly absorbed and illuminatedscarcely more than a meter in front of him. As he slowly moved forward, slimy,dripping things brushed against his face and the moisture from the soggy cave floorbegan to seep into his boots.
　　As he pushed through the blackness, his eyes began to grow accustomed to thedark. He saw a corridor before him, but as he moved toward it, he was surprised bya thick, sticky membrane that completely enveloped him. Like the web of somegigantic spider, the mass clung tightly to Luke's body. Thrashing at it with hislightsaber, Luke finally managed to disentangle himself and clear a path ahead.
　　He held his glowing sword in front of him and noticed an object on the cave floor.Pointing his lightsaber downward, Luke illuminated a black, shiny beetle the size ofhis hand. In an instant, the thing scurried up the slimy wall to join a cluster of itsmate.
　　Luke caught his breath and stepped back. At that moment he consideredhunting for the exit-but he braced himself and ventured still deeper into the darkchamber.
　　He felt the space about him widen as he moved forward, using his lightsaber as adim beacon. He strained to see in the darkness, trying his best to hear. But therewas no sound at all. Nothing.
　　Then, a very loud hiss.
　　The sound was familiar. He froze where he stood. He had heard that hisseven in his nightmares; it was the labored breath of a thing that had once been a man.
　　Out of the darkness a light appeared-the blue flame of a just-ignited laser sword.In its illumination Luke saw the looming figure of Darth Vader raised his lightedweapon to attack, and then lunge.
　　Prepared by his disciplined Jedi training, Luke was ready. He raised his ownlightsaber and perfectly sidestepped Vader's attack. In the same movement, Luketurned to Vader and, with his mind and body completely focused, the youthsummoned the Force. Feeling its power within him, Luke raised his laser weaponand brought it crashing down on Vader's head.
　　With one powerful stroke, the Dark Lord's head was severed from his body.Head and helmet crashed to the ground and rolled about the cave floor with a loudmetallic bang. As Luke watched in astonishment, Vader's body was completelyswallowed up by the darkness. Then Luke looked down at the helmet that had cometo rest directly in front of him. For a moment it was completely still. Then thehelmet cracked in half and split open.
　　As Luke watched in shocked disbelief, the broken helmet fell aside to reveal, notthe unknown, imagined face of Darth Vader, but Luke's own face, looking up at him.
　　He gasped, horrified at the sight. And then, as suddenly as it had appeared, thedecapitated head faded away as if in a ghostly vision.
　　Luke stared at the dark space where the head and pieces of helmet had lain. Hismind reeled, the emotions that raged inside of him were almost too much to bear.
　　The tree! He told himself. It was all some trick of this ugly cave, somecharade of Yoda's, arranged because he had come into the tree carrying a weapon.
　　He wondered if he were really fighting himself, or if he had fallen prey to thetemptations of the dark side of the Force. He might himself become a figure as evilas Darth Vader. And he wondered if there might be some even darker meaningbehind the unsettling vision.
　　It was a long while before Luke Skywalker was able to move from that deep,dark cave.
　　Meanwhile, sitting on the root, the little Jedi Master calmly gnawed his GimerStick.

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
    

The Empire Strikes Back
XI

　　It was dawn on the gaseous Bespin planet.
　　As the Millennium Falcon began its approach through the planet's atmosphere, itsoared past several of Bespin's many moons. The planet itself glowed with the samesoft pink hue of dawn that tinted the hull of the powerful pirate starship. As the shipneared, it swerved to avoid a billowing canyon of clouds that swirled up around theplanet.
　　When Han Solo finally lowered his ship through the clouds, he and his crew gottheir first glimpse of the gaseous world of Bespin. And as they maneuvered throughthe clouds, they noticed that they were being followed by some kind of flying vehicle.Han recognized the craft as a twin-pod cloud car but was surprised when the carbegan to bank close to his freighter. The Falcon suddenly lurched as a round of laserfire struck its hull. No one on the Falcon had expected this kind of greeting.
　　The other craft transmitted a static-obscured message over the Falcon's radiosystem.
　　"No," Han snarled in reply, "I do not have a landing permit. My registrationis-"
　　But his words were drowned out by a loud crackle of radio static.
　　The twin-pod car was apparently not willing to accept static for a reply. Againit opened up fire on the Falcon, shaking and rattling the ship with each strike.
　　A clear warning voice came over the freighter's speakers: "Stand by. Anyaggressive move will bring about your destruction."
　　At this point Han had no intention of making any aggressive moves. Bespinwas their only hope of sanctuary, he didn't plan to alienate his prospective hosts.
　　"Rather touchy, aren't they?" the reactivated See-Threepio asked.
　　"I thought you knew these people," Leia chided, casting a suspicious look atHan.
　　"Well," the Corellian hedged, "it's been a while."
　　Chewbacca growled and barked, shaking his head meaningfully at Han.
　　"That was a long time ago," he answered sharply. "I'm sure he's forgotten allabout it." But he began to wonder if Lando had forgotten the past´
　　"Permission granted to land on Platform 327. Any deviation of flight patternwill bring about your-"
　　Angrily, Han switched off the radio. Why was he being put through thisharassment? He was coming here peacefully; wasn't Lando going to let bygones bybygones? Chewbacca grunted and glanced at Solo, who turned to Leia and herworried robot. "He'll help us," he said, trying to reassure them all. "We go wayback´really. Don't worry."
　　"Who's worried?" she lied unconvincingly.
　　By then they could clearly see the Cloud City of Bespin through the cockpitwindow. The city was immense and seemed to float in the clouds as it emergedthrough the white atmosphere. As the Millennium Falcon approached the city, itbecame evident that the expansive city structure was supported from below by a thinunipod. The base of this supporting stalk was a large round reactor that floatedthrough its billowing sea of clouds.
　　The Millennium Falcon dipped closer to the huge city and veered in the directionof its landing platforms, flying past the rising towers and spires that dotted the city'slandscape. In and about these structures cruised more of the twin-pod cloud cars,gliding effortlessly through the mists.
　　Han gently brought the Falcon in to land on Platform 327; and as the ship's ionengines whined to a stop, the captain and his crew could see the welcoming partymoving toward the landing platform with weapons drawn. Like any cross-section ofcitizenry of Cloud City, this group included aliens, droids, and humans of all racesand description. One of these humans was the group's leader, Lando Calrissian.
　　Lando, a handsome black man perhaps the same age as Solo, was clad in elegantgray pants, blue shirt, and a flowing blue cape. He stood, unsmiling, on LandingPlatform 327, waiting for the Falcon's crew to disembark.
　　Han Solo and Princess Leia appeared at the open door of their ship, with blastersdrawn. Standing behind them was the giant Wookiee, his gun in hand and abandoleer of ammunition packs slung over his left shoulder.
　　Han didn't speak but quietly surveyed the menacing welcoming party that wasmarching across the platform toward them. An early morning wind began to sweepalong the ground, making Lando's cloak fly up behind him like enormous deep bluewings.
　　"I don't like this," Leia whispered to Han.
　　He didn't much like it either, but he wasn't going to let the princess know that."It'll be all right," he said quietly. "Trust me." Then, cautioning her, he added,"But keep your eyes open. Wait here."
　　Han and Chewbacca left Leia guarding the Falcon and they walked down theramp to face Calrissian and his motley army. The two parties moved toward eachother until Han and Calrissian stopped, three meters apart, the face each other. For along moment, each one eyed the other silently.
　　Finally Calrissian spoke, shaking his head and squinting at Han. "Why, youslimy, double-crossing, no-good swindler." He said grimly.
　　"I can explain everything, ol' buddy," Han said quickly, "if you'll just listen."
　　Still unsmiling, Lando surprised alien and human alike when he said, "Glad tosee you."
　　Han lifted an eyebrow skeptically. "No hard feelings?"
　　"Are you kidding?" Lando asked coolly.
　　Han was becoming nervous. Had he been forgiven or not? The guard andaides still had not lowered their weapons, and Lando's attitude was mystifying.Trying to conceal his worry, Han remarked gallantly, "I always said you were agentleman."
　　With that, the other man broke into a grin. "I'll bet," he chuckled.
　　Han laughed in relief, as the two old friends at last embraced each other like thelong-lost accomplices they were.
　　Lando waved at the Wookiee, standing behind his boss. "How you doing,Chewbacca?" he asked amiably. "Still wasting your time with this clown, eh?"
　　The Wookiee growled a reserved greeting.
　　Calrissian was not certain what to make of that growl. "Right," he half-smiled,looking uncomfortable. But his attention was distracted from this shaggy mass ofmuscle and hair when he saw Leia beginning to walk down the ramp. This lovelyvision was followed closely by her protocol droid, who cautiously glanced around asthey walked toward Lando and Ha.
　　"Hello! What have we here?" Calrissian welcomed her admiringly. "I amLando Calrissian, administrator of this facility. And who might you be?"
　　The princess remained coolly polite. "You may call me Leia," she replied.
　　Lando bowed formally and gently kissed the princess's hand.
　　"And I," her robot companion said, introducing himself to the administrator, "amSee-Threepio, human-cyborg relations, at your-"
　　But before Threepio could finish his little speech, Han draped one arm aboutLando's shoulder and steered him away from the princess. "She's traveling with me,Lando," he advised his old friend, "and I don't intend to gamble her away. So youmight as well forget she exists."
　　Lando looked longingly over his shoulder as he and Han began to walk acrossthe landing platform, followed by Leia, Threepio and Chewbacca. "That won't beeasy, my friend," Lando said regretfully.
　　Then he turned to Han. "What bring you here anyway?"
　　"Repairs."
　　Mock panic spread across Lando's face. "What have you done to my ship?"
　　Grinning, Han glanced back at Leia. "Lando used to own the Falcon," heexplained. "And he sometimes forgets that he lost her fair and square."
　　Lando shrugged as he conceded to Han's boastful claim. "That ship saved mylife more than a few times. It's the fastest hunk of junk in the galaxy. What'swrong with her?"
　　"Hyperdrive."
　　"I'll have my people get to work on it right away," Lando said. "I hate thethought of the Millennium Falcon without her heart."
　　The group crossed the narrow bridge that joined the landing area to the city-andwere instantly dazzled by its beauty. They saw numerous small plazas ringed bysmooth-edged towers and spires and buildings. The structures that constituted CloudCity's business and residential sections were gleaming white, shining brightly in themorning sun. Numerous alien races made up the city's populace and many of thesecitizens leisurely walked through the spacious streets alongside the Falcon visitors.
　　"How's your mining operation going?" Han asked Lando.
　　"Not as well as I'd like," Calrissian answered. "We're a small outpost and notvery self-sufficient. I've had supply problems of every kind and´" Theadministrator noticed Han's amused grin. "What's so funny?"
　　"Nothing." Then Han chuckled. "I never would have guessed that underneaththat wild schemer I knew was a responsible leader and businessman." Grudgingly,Han had to admit that he was impressed. "You wear it well."
　　Lando looked at his old friend reflectively. "Seeing you sure brings back a fewmemories." He shook his head, smiling. "Yes, I'm responsible these days. It's aprice of success. And you know what, Han? You were right all along. It'soverrated."
　　Both burst out laughing, causing a head or two to turn as the group movedthrough the city walkways.
　　See-Threepio lagged a bit behind, fascinated by the bustling alien crowds in theCloud City streets, the floating cars, the fabulous, fanciful buildings. He turned hishead back and forth, trying to register it all in his computer circuits.
　　As the golden droid gawked at the new sights, he passed a door facing thewalkway. Hearing it open, he turned to see a silver Threepio unit emerging andstopped to watch the other robot move away. While Threepio paused there, he hearda muffled beeping and whistling coming from behind the door.
　　He peeked in and saw a familiar-looking droid sitting in the anteroom. "Oh, anR2 unit!" he chirped in delight. "I'd almost forgotten what they sound like."
　　Threepio moved through the doorway and walked into the room. Instantly hesensed that he and the R2 unit were not alone. He threw his golden arms up insurprise, the expression of wonder on his gilded faceplate frozen in place. "Oh,my!" he exclaimed. "Those look like-"
　　As he spoke, a rocketing laser bolt crashed into his metal chest, sending himflying in twenty directions around the room. His bronzed arms and legs crashedagainst the walls and settled in a smoldering heap with the rest of his mechanicalbody.
　　Behind him, the door slammed shut.
　　Some distance away, Lando guided the small group into his hall of offices,pointing out objects of interest as they moved through the white corridors. None ofthem had noticed Threepio's absence as they walked along, discussing life in Bespin.
　　But Chewbacca suddenly stopped and curiously sniffed the air as he lookedbehind him. Then he shrugged his huge shoulders and continued to follow theothers.
　　Luke was perfectly calm. Even his present position did not make him feel tenseor strained or unsure, or any of the negative things he used to feel when he firstattempted this feat. He stood, perfectly balanced on one hand. He knew the Forcewas with him.
　　His patient master, Yoda, sat calmly on the soles of Luke's upturned feet. Lukeconcentrated serenely on his task and all at once he lifted four fingers from the ground.His balance undisturbed, he held his upside-down position-on one thumb.
　　Luke's determination had made him a quick study. He was eager to learn andwas undaunted by the tests Yoda had devised for him. And now he felt confidentthat when he finally left this planet, it would be as a full-fledged Jedi Knight preparedto fight only for the noblest of causes.
　　Luke was rapidly growing stronger with the Force and, indeed, wasaccomplishing miracles. Yoda grew more pleased with his apprentice's progress.Once, while Yoda stood watching nearby, Luke used the Force to lift two largeequipment cases and suspend them in midair. Yoda was pleased, but noticedArtoo-Detoo observing this apparent impossibility and emitting electronic beeps ofdisbelief. The Jedi Master raised his hand and, with the Force, lifted the little droidoff the ground.
　　Artoo hovered, his baffled internal circuits and sensors trying to detect theunseen power that held him suspended in the air. And suddenly the invisible handplayed still another joke on him: While hanging in midair, the little robot was abruptlyturned upside down. His white legs kicked desperately and his dome head spunhelplessly around. When Yoda finally lowered his hand, the droid, along with twosupply cases, began to drop. But only the boxes smashed against the ground.Artoo remained suspended in space.
　　Turning his head, Artoo perceived his young master, standing with handextended, preventing Artoo from a fatal tumble.
　　Yoda shook his head, impressed by his student's quick thinking and by hiscontrol.
　　Yoda sprang onto Luke's arm and the two of them turned back toward the house.But they had forgotten something: Artoo-Detoo was still hanging in the air, beepingand whistling frantically, trying to get their attention. Yoda was merely playinganother joke on the fretful droid, and as Yoda and Luke strolled away, Artoo heard theJedi Master's bell-like laugh float in gay peals behind him as the droid slowly loweredto the ground.
　　Some time later, as dusk crept through the dense foliage of the bog, Artoo wascleaning the X-wing's hull. Through a hose that ran from the pond to an orifice inhis side, the robot sprayed down the ship with a powerful stream of water. Andwhile he worked, Luke and Yoda sat in the clearing, Luke's eyes closed inconcentration.
　　"Be calm," Yoda told him. "Through the Force things you will see: otherplaces, other thoughts, the future, the past, old friends long gone."
　　Luke was losing himself as he concentrated on Yoda's words. He wasbecoming unaware of his body and let his consciousness drift with the words of hismaster. "My mind fills with so many images."
　　"Control, control you must learn of what you see," the Jedi Master instructed."Not easy, not fast."
　　Luke closed his eyes, relaxed, and began to free his mind, began to control theimages. At last there was something, not clear at first, but something white,amorphous. Gradually the image cleared. It seemed to be that of a city, a city thatperhaps floated in a billowing white sea.
　　"I see a city in the clouds," he finally said.
　　"Bespin," Yoda identified it. "I see it, too. Friends you have there, heh?Concentrate and see them you will."
　　Luke's concentration intensified. And the city in the clouds became clearer.As he concentrated he was able to see forms, familiar forms of people he knew.
　　"I see them!" Luke exclaimed, his eyes still shut. Then a sudden agony, ofbody and spirit, took hold of him. "They're in pain. They're suffering."
　　"It is the future you see," the voice of Yoda explained.
　　The future, Luke thought. Then the pain he had felt had not yet been inflictedon his friends. So perhaps the future was not unchangeable.
　　"Will they die?" he asked his master.
　　Yoda shook his head and shrugged gently. "Difficult to see. Always inmotion is the future."
　　Luke opened his eyes again. He stood up and quickly began to gather hisequipment. "They're my friends," he said, guessing that the Jedi Master might try todissuade him from doing what he knew he must.
　　"And therefore," Yoda added, "decide you must how to serve them best. If youleave now, help them you could. But you would destroy all for which they havefought and suffered."
　　His words stopped Luke cold. The youth sank to the ground, feeling a shroudof gloom envelop him. Could he really destroy everything he had worked for andpossibly also destroy his friends? But how could he not try to save them?
　　Artoo perceived his master's despair and rolled over to stand by him and providewhat comfort he could.
　　Chewbacca, who had grown concerned about See-Threepio, slipped away fromHan Solo and the others and began hunting for the missing droid. All he had tofollow were his keen Wookiee instincts as he wandered through the unfamiliar whitepassageways and corridors of Bespin.
　　Following his senses, Chewbacca finally came upon an enormous room in acorridor on the outside of the Cloud City. He approached the entrance to the roomand heard the clamor of metallic object clattering together. Along with the clanging,he heard the low grunting of creatures he had never encountered before.
　　The room he had found was a Cloud City junk room-the repository of all thecity's broken machines and other discarded metal junk.
　　Standing amid the scattered pieces of metal and tangled wire were four hoglikecreatures. White hair grew thickly on their heads and partially covered theirwrinkled piggish faces. The humanoid beasts-called Ugnaughts on thisplanet-were busy separating the junked pieces of metal and casting them into a pit ofmolten metal.
　　Chewbacca entered the room and saw that one of the Ugnaught held afamiliar-looking piece of golden metal.
　　The piglike creature was already raising his arm to toss the severed metal leg intothe sizzling pit when Chewbacca roared at him, barking desperately. The Ugnaughtdropped the leg and ran, to cower in terror with his fellows.
　　The Wookiee grabbed the metal leg and inspected it closely. He hadn't beenmistaken. And as he growled angrily at the huddled Ugnaughts, they shivered andgrunted like a pack of frightened pigs.
　　Sunlight streamed into the circular lounge of the apartments assigned to HanSolo and his group. The lounge was white and furnished simple, with a couch and atable and little any anything else. Each of the four sliding doors, placed along thecircular wall, led to an adjoining apartment.
　　Han leaned out the lounge's large bay window to take in the panoramic view ofCloud City. The sight was breathtaking, even to such a jaded star jockey. Hewatched the flying cloud cars weave between the towering buildings, then lookeddown to see the people moving through the networks of streets below. The cool,clean air swept against his face, and, at least for the present, he felt as if he didn'thave a care in all the universe.
　　A door behind him opened, and he turned to see Princess Leia standing in theentranceway to her apartment. She was stunning. Dressed in red with acloud-white cloak flowing to the floor, Leia looked more beautiful than Han had everseen her. Her long, dark hair was tied with ribbons and it softly framed her oval face.And she was looking at him, smiling at his astounded expression.
　　"What are you staring at?" she asked, beginning to blush.
　　"Who's staring?"
　　"You look silly," she said, laughing.
　　"You look great."
　　Leia looked away in embarrassment. "Has Threepio turned up yet?" she asked,trying to change the subject.
　　Solo was taken off guard. "Huh? Oh. Chewie went to look for him. He'sbeen gone too long just to be lost." He patted the softly cushioned sofa. "Comeover here," he beckoned. "I want to check this out."
　　She thought about his invitation for a moment, then walked over and sat next tohim on the couch. Han was overjoyed at her apparent compliance and leaned over toput his arm around her. But just before he had quite succeeded, she spoke again. "Ihope Luke made it to the fleet all right."
　　"Luke!" He was becoming exasperated. How hard did he have to play at thisgame of hard-to-get? It was her game, and her rules-but he had chosen to play.She was too lovely to resist. "I'm sure he's fine," Han said, soothingly. "Probablysitting around wondering what we're doing right now."
　　He moved closer and put his arm around her shoulders, pulling her closer to him.She gazed at him invitingly, and he moved to kiss her-
　　Just then one of the doors zapped open. Chewbacca lumbered in carrying alarge packing case filled with disturbingly familiar metal parts-the remains, inbronzed bits and pieces, of See-Threepio. The Wookiee dropped the case on thetable. Gesturing toward Han, he barked and growled in distress.
　　"What happened?" Leia asked, moving closer to inspect the pile of disjointedpart.
　　"He found Threepio in a junk room."
　　Leia gasped. "What a mass! Chewie, do you think you can repair him?"
　　Chewbacca studied the collection of robot parts, then, looking back at theprincess, shrugged his shoulders howled. It looked to him like an impossible job.
　　"Why don't we just turn him over to Lando to fix?" Han suggested.
　　"No thanks," Leia answered, with a cold look in her eyes. "Something's wronghere. Your friend Lando is very charming, but I don't trust him."
　　"Well, I do trust him," Han argued, defending his host. "Listen, sweetheart, I'mnot going to have you accusing my friend of-"
　　But he was interrupted by a buzz as a door slid open, and Lando Calrissianentered the lounge. Smiling cordially, he walked toward the small group. "Sorry,am I interrupting anything?"
　　"Not really," the princess said distantly.
　　"My dear," Lando said, ignoring her coldness toward him, "your beauty isunparalleled. Truly you belong here with us among the clouds."
　　She smiled icily. "Thanks."
　　"Would you care to join me for a little refreshment?"
　　Han had to admit that he was a bit hungry. But for some reason he could notquite name, he felt a wave of suspicion about his friend flood over him. He didn'tremember Calrissian being quite so polite, quite so smooth. Perhaps Leia wascorrect in her suspicions´
　　His thoughts were interrupted by Chewbacca's enthusiastic bark at the mentionof food. The big Wookiee was licking his lips at the prospect of a hearty meal.
　　"Everyone's invited, of course," Lando said.
　　Leia took Lando's proffered arm and, as the group moved toward the door,Calrissian glimpsed the box of golden robot parts. "Having problems with yourdroid?" he asked.
　　Han and Leia exchanged a quick glance. If Han was going to ask for Lando'shelp in repairing the droid, now was the moment. "An accident," he grunted."Nothing we can't handle."
　　They left the lounge, leaving behind them the shattered remains of the protocoldroid.
　　The group strolled through the long white corridors and Leia walked betweenHan and Lando. Han wasn't at all certain he liked the prospect of competing withLando for Leia's affections-especially under the circumstance. But they weredependent on Lando's good graces now. They had no other choice.
　　Joining them as they walked was Lando's personal aide, a tall bald man dressedin a gray jacket with ballooning yellow sleeves. The aide wore a radio device thatwrapped around the back of his head and covered both his ears. He walked alongwith Chewbacca a short distance behind Han, Leia, and Lando, and as they walkedtoward Lando's dining hall, the administrator described the status of his planet'sgovernment.
　　"So you see," Lando explained, "we are a free station and do not fall under thejurisdiction of the Empire."
　　"You're part of the mining guild then?" Leia asked.
　　"Not actually. Our operation is small enough not to be noticed. Much of ourtrade is, well´unofficial."
　　They stepped onto a veranda that overlooked the spiraled top of Cloud City.From here they saw several flying cloud cars gracefully swooping around thebeautiful spired buildings of the city. It was a spectacular view, and the visitors werevery impressed.
　　"It's a lovely outpost," Leia marveled.
　　"Yes, we're proud of it," Lando replied. "You'll find the air quite specialhere´very simulating." He smiled at Leia meaningfully. "You could grow to likeit."
　　Han didn't miss Lando's flirtatious glance-and he didn't like it, either. "Wedon't plan on staying that long," he said brusquely.
　　Leia raised an eyebrow and glanced mischievously at the now-fuming Han Solo."I find it most relaxing."
　　Lando chuckled, and led them from the veranda. They approached the dininghall with its massive closed doors and, as they paused in front of them, Chewbaccalifted his head and sniffed the air curiously. He turned and barked urgently at Han.
　　"Not now, Chewie," Han reproved, turning to Calrissian. "Lando, aren't youafraid the Empire might eventually discover this little operation and shut you down?"
　　"That's always been the danger," the administrator replied. "It's loomed like ashadow over everything we've built here. But circumstances have developed whichwill insure security. You see, I've made a deal that will keep the Empire out of hereforever."
　　With that the mighty door slid open-and immediately Han understood just whatthat "deal" must have involved. At the far end of the huge banquet table stood thebounty hunter Boba Fett.
　　Fett stood next to a chair that held the black essence of evil itself-Darth Vader.Slowly the Dark Lord rose to his full, menacing two-meter height.
　　Han shot his meanest look at Lando.
　　"Sorry, friend," Lando said, sounding mildly apologetic. "I had no choice.They arrived right before you did."
　　"I'm sorry, too," Han snapped. In that instant, he cleared his blaster from itsholster, aimed it directly at the figure in black, and began to pump laser bolts Vader'sway.
　　But the man who may have been the fastest draw in the galaxy was not fastenough to surprise Vader. Before those bolts zipped halfway across the table, theDark Lord had lifted a gauntlet-protected hand and effortlessly deflected them so theyexploded against the wall in a harmless spray of flying white shards.
　　Astounded by what he had just seen, Han tried firing again. But before hecould discharge another laser blast, something-something unseen yet incrediblystrong-yanked the weapon from his hand and sent it flying into Vader's grip. Theraven figure calmly placed the weapon on top of the dining table.
　　Hissing through his obsidian mask, the Dark Lord addressed his would-beassailant. "We would be honored if you joined us."
　　Artoo-Detoo felt the rain plunking on top of his metal dome as he trudgedthrough the muddy puddles of the bog. He was headed for the sanctuary of Yoda'slittle hut, and soon his optical sensors picked up the golden glow shining through itswindows. As he neared the inviting house, he felt a robot's relief that at last hewould get out of this annoying, persistent rain.
　　But when he tried to pass through the entrance he discovered that his inflexibledroid body just could not get in; he tried from one angle, then from another. At lastthe perception that he was simply the wrong shape to get in seeped into his computermind.
　　He could scarcely believe his sensors. As he peered into the house, he scanneda busy figure, bustling about the kitchen, stirring steaming pots, chopping this andthat, running back and forth. But the figure in Yoda's tiny kitchen, doing Yoda'skitchen tasks, was not the Jedi Master-but his apprentice.
　　Yoda, it appeared from Artoo's scan, was simply sitting back observing hisyoung pupil from the adjacent room, and quietly smiling. Then suddenly, in themidst of all his kitchen activity, Luke paused, as if a painful vision had appearedbefore him.
　　Yoda noticed Luke's troubled look. As he watched his student, three glow-ballseekers appeared from behind Yoda and noiselessly shot through the air to attack theyoung Jedi from behind. Instantly Luke turned to face them, a pot lid in one handand a spoon in the other.
　　The seekers sent one rocketing bolt after another directly at Luke. But, withastounding skill, he warded off every one. He knocked one of the seekers toward theopen door where Artoo stood watching his master's performance. But the faithfuldroid saw the shining ball too late to avoid the bolt it shot at him. The impactknocked the shrieking robot onto the ground with a clunk that nearly shook loose hiselectronic insides.
　　Later that evening, after the student had successfully passed a number of histeacher's tests, a weary Luke Skywalker finally fell asleep on the tossing and softlymoaning. His concerned droid stood by him, reaching out an extension arm andcovering Luke with the blanket that had slipped halfway off. But when Artoo startedto roll away, Luke began to groan and shudder as if in the grip of some horriblenightmare.
　　Inside the house, Yoda heard the groans and hurried to his doorway.
　　Luke awoke from his sleep with a start. Dazed, he looked about him, then sawhis teacher, worriedly watching him from his house. "I can't keep the vision out ofmy head," Luke told Yoda. "My friends´they're in trouble´and I feel that-"
　　"Luke, you must not go," Yoda warned.
　　"But Han and Leia will die if I don't."
　　"You don't know that." It was the whispered voice of Ben, who was beginningto materialize before them. The dark-robed figure stood, a shimmering image, andtold Luke, "Even Yoda cannot see their fate."
　　But Luke was deeply worried about his friends and was determined to dosomething. "I can help them!" he insisted.
　　"You're not ready yet," Ben said gently. "You still have much to learn."
　　"I feel the Force," Luke said.
　　"But you cannot control it. This is a dangerous stage for you, Luke. You arenow most susceptible to the temptations of the dark side."
　　"Yes, yes," Yoda added. "To Obi-wan you listen, young one. The tree.Remember your failure at the tree! Heh?"
　　Painfully, Luke remembered, though he felt he had gained a great deal ofstrength and understanding in that experience. "I've learned much since then. AndI'll return to finish. I promise that, master."
　　"You underestimate the Emperor," Ben told him gravely. "It is you he wants.That is why your friends suffer."
　　"And that," Luke said, "is why I must go."
　　Kenobi was firm. "I will not lose you to the Emperor as I once lost Vader."
　　"You won't."
　　"Only a fully trained Jedi Knight, with the Force as his ally, will conquer Vaderand his Emperor," Ben emphasized. "If you end your training now, if you choosethe quick and easy path-as Vader did-you will become an agent of evil, and thegalaxy will be plunged deeper into the abyss of hate and despair."
　　"Stopped they must be," Yoda interjected. "Do you hear? On this alldepends."
　　"You are the last Jedi, Luke. You are our only hope. Be patient."
　　"And sacrifice Han and Leia?" the youth asked incredulously.
　　"If you honor what they fight for," Yoda said, pausing for a long moment,"´yes!"
　　Great anguish overcame Luke. He wasn't certain that he could reconcile theadvice of these two great mentors with his own feelings. His friends were in terribledanger, and of course he must save them. But his teachers thought he was not ready,that he might be too vulnerable to the powerful Vader and his Emperor, that he mightbring harm to his friends and himself-and possibly be lost forever on the path ofevil.
　　Yet how could he fear these abstract things when Han and Leia were real andwere suffering? How could he permit himself to fear possible danger to himselfwhen his friends were presently in real danger of death?
　　There was no longer any question in his mind as to what he had to do.
　　It was dusk the next day on the bog planet when Artoo-Detoo settled himself intohis nook behind the cockpit of Luke's X-wing fighter.
　　Yoda stood on one of the storage cases, watching Luke load the cases one by oneinto the fighter's underbelly as he worked in the glow of the X-wing's lights.
　　"I cannot protect you, Luke," the voice of Ben Kenobi came, as his robed figuretook solid form. "If you choose to face Vader, you will do it alone. Once you'vemade this decision, I cannot interfere."
　　"I understand," Luke replied calmly. Then, turning to his droid, he said, "Artoo,fire up the power converters."
　　Artoo, who had already unfastened the power couplings on the ship, whistledhappily, grateful to be leaving this dismal bog world, which was certainly no place fora droid.
　　"Luke," Ben advised, "use the Force only for knowledge and for defense, not asa weapon. Don't give in to hate or anger. They lead the way to the dark side."
　　Luke nodded, only half-listening. His mind was on the long journey and on thedifficult tasks ahead of him. He must save his friends, whose lives were in dangerbecause of him. He climbed into the cockpit, then looked at his little Jedi Master.
　　Yoda was deeply concerned about his apprentice. "Strong is Vader," he warnedominously. "Clouded is your fate. Mind what you have learned. Noticeeverything, everything! It can save you."
　　"I will, Master Yoda," Luke assured him. "I will and I'll be back to finish whatI have begun. I give you my word!"
　　Artoo closed the cockpit and Luke started the engines.
　　Yoda and Obi-wan Kenobi watched the X-wing gear its engines and begin tomove away for takeoff.
　　"Told you, I did," Yoda said sorrowfully, as the sleek fighter craft began to liftinto the misty heavens. "Reckless is he. Now things are going to worse."
　　"That boy is our last hope," Ben Kenobi said, his voice heavy with emotion.
　　"No," Kenobi's former teacher corrected with a knowing gleam in his large eyes,"there is another."
　　Yoda lifted his head toward the darkening sky where Luke's ship was already abarely distinguishable point of light among the flickering stars.

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
    

The Empire Strikes Back
XII

　　Chewbacca thought he was going mad!
　　The prison cell was flooded with hot, blinding light that seared his sensitiveWookiee eyes. Not even his huge hands and hairy arms, thrust up over his face,could entirely protect him from the glare. And to add to his misery, a high-pitchedwhistle blared into the cubicle, tormenting his keen sense of hearing. He roared inagony, but his guttural roars were drowned out by the piercing, screeching noise.
　　The Wookiee paced back and forth within the confines of the cell. Moaningpitifully, he pounded at the thick walls in desperation, wanting someone, anyone, tocome and free him. While he pounded, the whistle that had nearly exploded hiseardrums suddenly stopped and the deluge of light flickered and went out.
　　Chewbacca staggered back a step with the sudden absence of torture, and thenmoved to one of the cell walls to try to detect whether anyone was approaching torelease him. But the thick walls revealed nothing and, maddened to a fury,Chewbacca slammed a giant fist against the wall.
　　But the wall stood undamaged and as impenetrable as before, and Chewbaccarealized it would take more than Wookiee brute strength to topple it.
　　Despairing of his chances of breaking through the cell to freedom, Chewbaccashuffled toward the bed, where the box of 3PO parts had been placed.
　　Idly at first, and then with more interest, the Wookiee began poking through thebox. It dawned jointed droid. Not only would doing so pass the time, but it mightbe helpful to have Threepio back in working condition.
　　He picked up the golden head and gazed into its darkened eyes. He held thehead and barked a few soliloquizing words as if to prepare the robot for the joy ofre-entry into activity-or for the disappointment of Chewbacca's possible failure toreconstruct him properly.
　　Then, quite delicately for a creature of his size and strength, the giant Wookieeplaced the staring head atop the bronzed torso. Tentatively he began experimentingwith Threepio's tangle of wires and circuits. His mechanical skills had previouslyonly been tested in repairs on the Millennium Falcon, so he wasn't at all certain hecould complete the delicate task. Chewbacca juggled and fiddled with the wires,baffled by this intricate mechanism, when suddenly Threepio's eyes lit up.
　　A whine came from inside the robot. It sounded vaguely like Threepio'snormal voice, but was so low and so slow that the words were unintelligible.
　　"Imm-peeeeer-eee-all-storr-mmm-trppp´"
　　bewildered, Chewbacca scratched his furry head and studied the broken robotintently. An idea came to him, and he tried switching one wire to another plug.Instantly Threepio began speaking in his normal voice. What he had to say soundedlike words from a bad dream.
　　"Chewbacca!" the head of See-Threepio cried. "Watch out, there are Imperialstormtroopers hidden in-" He paused, as if reliving the whole traumatic experience,and then he cried, "Oh, no! I've been shot!"
　　Chewbacca shook his head in sympathy. All he could do at this point was try toput the rest of See-Threepio back together again.
　　Quite possibly it was the first time Han Solo had ever screamed. Never had heendured such excruciating torment. He was strapped to a platform that angled awayfrom the floor at approximately forty-five degrees. While he was strapped there,electric currents of searing power shot through his body at short intervals, each joltmore painfully powerful than the last. He squirmed to free himself but his agonywas so severe that it was all he could do just to remain conscious.
　　Standing near the torture rack, Darth Vader silently watched Han Solo's ordeal.Seeming neither pleased nor displeased, he watched until he had seen enough, andthen the Dark Lord turned his back on the writhing figure and left the cell, the doorsliding behind him to muffle Solo's anguished screams.
　　Outside the torture chamber, Boba Fett waited for Lord Vader with LandoCalrissian and the administrator's aide.
　　With obvious disdain, Vader turned to Fett. "Bounty hunter," Vader addressedthe man in the black-marked silver helmet, "if you are waiting for your reward, youwill wait until I have Skywalker."
　　The self-assured Boba Fett appeared unruffled by this news. "I am in no hurry,Lord Vader. My concern is that Captain Solo not be damaged. The reward fromJabba the Hut is double if he's alive."
　　"His pain is considerable, bounty hunter," Vader hissed, "but he will not beharmed."
　　"What about Leia and the Wookiee?" Lando asked with some concern.
　　"You will find them well enough," Vader answered. "But," he added withunmistakable finality, "they must never again leave this city."
　　"That was never a condition of our agreement," Calrissian argued. "Nor wasgiving Han to this bounty hunter."
　　"Perhaps you think you're being treated unfairly," Vader said sarcastically.
　　"No," Lando said, glancing at his aide.
　　"Good," Vader continued, adding a veiled threat. "It would be most unfortunateif I had to leave a permanent garrison here."
　　Bowing his head reverently, Lando Calrissian waited until Darth Vader hadturned and swept into a waiting elevator with the silver-armored bounty hunter.Then, taking his aide with him, the administrator of Cloud City strode swiftly down awhite-walled corridor.
　　"This deal's becoming worse all the time," Lando complained.
　　"Maybe you should have tried to negotiate with him," the aide suggested.
　　Lando looked at his aide grimly. He was beginning to realize that the deal withDarth Vader was giving nothing to him. And, beyond that, it was bringing harm topeople he might have called friends. Finally, he said, low enough not to be heard byany of Vader's spies, "I've got a bad feeling about this."
　　See-Threepio was at last beginning to feel something like his old self.
　　The Wookiee had been busily working on reconnecting the droid's many wiresand internal circuits, and just now was beginning to figure out how to attach the limb.So far he had reattached the head to the torso and had successfully completedconnecting an arm. The rest of Threepio's parts still lay on the table with wires andcircuits hanging out of the severed joints.
　　But, though the Wookiee was diligently working to complete his task, the goldendroid began to complain vociferously. "Well, something's not right," he fussed,"because now I can't see."
　　The patient Wookiee barked, and adjusted a wire in Threepio's neck. At last therobot could see again and he breathed a little mechanical sigh of relief. "There now,that's better."
　　But it wasn't much better. When he cast his newly activated sensor gaze towardwhere his chest should be he saw-his back! "Wait-Oh, my. What have youdone? I'm backwards!" Threepio sputtered. "You flea-bitten furball! Only anovergrown mophead like you would be stupid enough to put my head-"
　　The Wookiee growled menacingly. He had forgotten what a complainer thisdroid was. And this cell was too small for him to listen to any more of that! BeforeThreepio knew what was happening to him, the Wookiee lumbered over and pulled awire. Instantly the grumbling ceased, and the room became quiet again.
　　Then there was a familiar scent nearing the cell.
　　The Wookiee sniffed the air and hurried to the door.
　　The cell door buzzed open and a ragged, exhausted Han Solo was shoved in bytwo Imperial stormtroopers. The troopers left and Chewbacca quickly moved to hisfriend, embracing him with relief. Han's face was pale, with dark circles under hiseyes. It seemed that he was on the verge of collapse, and Chewbacca barked hisconcern to his long-time companion.
　　"No," Han said wearily, "I'm all right. I'm all right."
　　The door opened once again, and Princess Leia was thrown into the cell by thestormtroopers. She was still dressed in her elegant cloak but, like Han, she lookedtired and disheveled.
　　When the stormtroopers left and the door slid shut behind them, Chewbaccahelped Leia over to Han. The two gazed at one another with great emotion, thenreached out and tightly embraced. After a moment they kissed tenderly.
　　While Han still held her, Luke weakly asked him, "Why are they doing this? Ican't understand what they're up to."
　　Han was as puzzled as she. "They had me howling on the scan grid, but theynever asked me any question."
　　Then the door slid open again, admitting Lando and two of his Cloud Cityguards.
　　"Get out of here, Lando!" Han snarled. If he had felt stronger, he would haveleaped up to attack his traitorous friend.
　　"Shut up a minute and listen," Lando snapped. "I'm doing what I can to makethis easier for you."
　　"This ought to be good," Han remarked caustically.
　　"Vader has agreed to turn Leia and Chewie over to me," explained Lando."They'll have to stay here, but at least they'll be safe."
　　Leia gasped. "What about Han?"
　　Lando looked solemnly at his friend. "I didn't know you had a price on yourhead. Vader has given you to the bounty hunter."
　　The princess quickly looked at Han, concern flooding her eyes.
　　"You don't know much about much," Han said to Calrissian, "if you think Vaderwon't want us dead before all this is over."
　　"He doesn't want you all," Lando said. "He's after someone called Skywalker."
　　The two prisoners caught their breath at the casual mention of that name.
　　Han seemed puzzled. "Luke? I don't get it."
　　The princess's mind was racing. All the facts were beginning to fit togetherinto a terrible mosaic. In the past, Vader had wanted Leia because of her politicalimportance in the war between Empire and Rebel Alliance. Now she was almostbeneath his notice, useful only for one possible function.
　　"Lord Vader has set a trap for him," Lando added, "and-"
　　Leia finished his statement. "We're the bait."
　　"All this just to get the kid?" Han asked. "What's so important about him?"
　　"Don't ask me, but he's on his way."
　　"Luke's coming here?"
　　Lando Calrissian nodded.
　　"You fixed us all pretty good," Han growled, spitting his words at Lando,"-friend!"
　　as he snarled that last, accusing word, Han Solo's strength returned in a rush.He put all of his might into a punch that sent Lando reeling. Instantly the two formerfriends were engaged in a furious, close-quarters battle. Lando's two guards movedcloser to the two grappling opponents and began striking at Han with the butts of theirlaser rifles. One powerful blow struck Han on the chin and sent him flying acrossthe room, blood streaming from his jaw.
　　Chewbacca began to growl savagely and started for the guards. As they raisedtheir laser weapons, Lando shouted, "Don't shoot!"
　　Bruised and winded, the administrator turned to Han. "I've done what I can foryou," he said. "I'm sorry it's not better, but I've got my own problems." Thenturning to leave the cell, Lando Calrissian added, "I've already stuck my neck outfarther than I should."
　　"Yeah," Han Solo retorted, regaining his composure, "you're a real hero."
　　When Lando had left with his guards, Leia and Chewbacca helped Han back tohis feet and led him to one of the bunks. He eased his weary, battered body onto thebunk, and Leia took a piece of her cloak and began gently dabbing at his chin,cleaning off the oozing blood.
　　As she did so, she started to chuckle softly. "You certainly have a way withpeople," she teased.
　　Artoo-Detoo's head swiveled atop his barrellike body as his scanners perceivedthe star-studded void of the Bespin system.
　　The speeding X-wing had just entered the system, and was swooping throughblack space like a great white bird.
　　The R2 unit had a lot to communicate to his pilot. His electronic thoughts weretumbling out, one on top of the other, and were translated on the cockpit scope.
　　The grim-faced Luke quickly responded to the first of Artoo's urgent questions."Yes," Luke replied. "I'm sure Threepio is with them."
　　The little robot whistled an excited exclamation.
　　"Just hold on," Luke said patiently, "we'll be there soon."
　　Artoo's turning head perceived the regal clusters of stars, his innards warm andcheerful, as the X-wing continued like a celestial arrow toward a planet with a city inthe clouds.
　　Lando Calrissian and Darth Vader stood near the hydraulic platform thatdominated the huge carbon-freezing chamber. The Dark Lord was quiet while aideshurried to prepare the room.
　　The hydraulic platform was housed within a deep pit in the center of the chamberand was surrounded by countless steam pipes and enormous chemical tanks ofvarying shapes.
　　Standing guards with laser rifles clutched in their hands were four armor-suitedImperial stormtroopers.
　　Darth Vader turned to Calrissian after appraising the chamber. "The facility iscrude," he remarked, "but it should suit our needs."
　　One of Vader's officers rushed to the Sith Lord's side. "Lord Vader," hereported, "ship approaching-X-wing class."
　　"Good," Vader said coldly. "Monitor Skywalker's progress and allow him toland. We'll have the chamber ready for him shortly."
　　"We only use this facility for carbon-freezing," the administrator of Cloud Citysaid nervously. "If you put him in there, it might kill him."
　　But Vader had already considered that possibility. He knew a way to find outjust how powerful this freezing unit was. "I don't wish the Emperor's prize to bedamaged. We'll test it first." He caught the attention of his stormtroopers."Bring in Solo," the Dark Lord commanded.
　　Lando quickly glanced at Vader. He hadn't been prepared for the pure evil thatwas manifested in this terrifying being.
　　The X-wing speedily made its descent, and began to pierce the dense cloudblanket enveloping the planet.
　　Luke checked his monitor screens with growing concern. Maybe Artoo hadmore information than he was getting on his own panel. He tapped out a question tothe robot.
　　"You haven't picked up any patrol ships?"
　　Artoo-Detoo's reply was negative.
　　And so Luke, thoroughly convinced that his arrival was thus far undetected,pressed his ship onward, toward the city of his troubled vision.
　　Six of the piglike Ugnaughts frantically prepared the carbon-freezing chamberfor use, while Lando Calrissian and Darth Vader-now the true master of CloudCity-observed the hasty activity.
　　As they scurried about the carbon-freezing platform, the Ugnaughts lowered anetwork of pipes-resembling some alien giant's circulatory system-into the pit.They raised the carbonite hoses and hammered them into place. Then the sixhumanoids lifted the heavy coffinlike container and set it securely onto the platform.
　　Boba Fett rushed in, leading a squad of six Imperial stormtroopers. Thetroopers shoved and pulled Han, Leia, and the Wookiee in front of them, forcing themto hurry into the chamber. Strapped to the Wookiee's broad back was the partiallyreassembled See-Threepio, whose unattached arm and legs were roughly bundledagainst his gilded torso. The droid's head, facing the opposite direction fromChewbacca's frantically turned around to try to see where they were going and whatlay in store for them.
　　Vader turned to the bounty hunter. "Put him in the carbon-freezing chamber."
　　"What if he doesn't survive?" the calculating Boba Fett asked. "He is worth alot to me."
　　"The Empire will compensate you for the loss," Vader said succinctly.
　　Anguished, Leia protested, "No!"
　　Chewbacca threw back his maned head gave out a bellowing Wookiee howl.Then he charged directly at the line of stormtroopers guarding Han.
　　Screaming in panic, See-Threepio raised his one functioning arm to protect hisface.
　　"Wait!" the robot yelled. "What are you doing?"
　　But the Wookiee wrestled and grappled with the troopers, undaunted by theirnumber or by Threepio's frightened shrieks.
　　"Oh, no´Don't hit me!" the droid begged, trying to protect his disassembledparts with his arm. "No! He doesn't mean it! Calm down, you hairy fool!"
　　More stormtroopers had come into the room and joined the fight. Some of thetroopers began to club the Wookiee with the butts of their rifles, banging againstThreepio in the process.
　　"Ouch!" the droid screamed. "I didn't do anything!"
　　The stormtroopers had begun to overpower Chewbacca, and were about to smashhim in the face with their weapons when, over the sounds of the fray, Han shouted,"Chewie, no! Stop it, Chewbacca!"
　　Only Han Solo could deflect the maddened Wookiee from his battle. Strainingagainst the hold of his guards, Han broke away from them and rushed over to breakup the fight.
　　Vader signaled his guards to let Han go and signaled the battling stormtroopers tostop the fight.
　　Han gripped the massive forearms of his hairy friends to calm him down, thengave him a stern look.
　　The flustered Threepio was still fussing and fuming. "Oh, yes´stop, stop."Then, with a robotic sigh of relief, he said, "Thank heavens!"
　　Han and Chewbacca faced each other, the former looking grimly into his friend'seyes. For a moment they embraced tightly, then Han told the Wookiee, "Save yourstrength for another time, pal, when the odds are better." He mustered a reassuringwink, but the Wookiee was grief-stricken and barked a mournful wail.
　　"Yeah," Han said, trying his best to crack a grin, "I know. I feel the same way.Keep well." Han Solo turned to one of the guards. "You'd better chain him until it'sover."
　　The subdued Chewbacca did not resist as the stormtrooper placed restrainingbands around his wrists. Han gave his partner a final farewell hug, then turned toPrincess Leia. He took her in his arms and they embraced as if they would never letgo.
　　Then Leia pressed her lips to his in a lingering kiss of passion. When their kissended, tears were in her eyes. "I love you," she said softly. "I couldn't tell youbefore, but it's true."
　　He smiled his familiar cocky smile. "Just remember that, because I'll be back."Then his face grew tender and he kissed her gently on the forehead.
　　Tears began to roll down her cheeks as Han turned away from her and walkedquietly and fearlessly toward the waiting platform.
　　The Ugnaughts rushed to his side and positioned him on the platform, bindinghis arms and legs tightly onto the hydraulic deck. He stood alone and helpless, andgazed one last time at his friends. Chewbacca looked at his friend mournfully,Threepio's head peeking over the Wookiee's shoulder to get one last look at the braveman. The administrator, Calrissian, watched this ordeal, a solemn look of regretetched deeply into his face. And then there was Leia. Her face was contorted withthe pain of her grief as she stood regally trying to be strong.
　　Leia's was the last face Han saw when he felt the hydraulic platform suddenlydrop. As it dropped, the Wookiee bellowed a final, baleful farewell.
　　In that terrible moment, the grieving Leia turned away, and Lando grimaced insorrow.
　　Instantly fiery liquid began to pour down into the pit in a great cascading showerof fluid and sparks.
　　Chewbacca half-turned from the horrifying spectacle, giving Threepio a betterview of the process.
　　"They're encasing him in carbonite," the droid reported. "It's high-quality alloy.Much better than my own. He should be quite well protected´This is, if hesurvived the freezing process."
　　Chewbacca quickly glanced over his shoulder at Threepio, silencing his technicaldescription with an angry bark.
　　When the liquid finally solidified, huge metal tongs lifted the smoldering figurefrom the pit. The figure, which was cooling rapidly, had a recognizably humanshape, but was featureless and rocky like an unfinished sculpture.
　　Some of the hogmen, their hands protected by thick black gloves, approached themetal-encased body of Han Solo and shoved the block over. After the figure crashedto the platform with a loud, metallic clang, the Ugnaughts hoisted it into thecasket-shaped container. They then attached a boxlike electronic device to its sideand stepped away.
　　Kneeling, Lando turned some knobs on the device and checked the gaugemeasuring the temperature of Han's body. He sighed with relief and nodded hishead. "He's alive," he informed Han Solo's anxious friends, "and in perfecthibernation."
　　Darth Vader turned to Boba Fett. "He's all yours, bounty hunter," he hissed."Reset the chamber for Skywalker."
　　"He's just landed, my lord," an aide informed him.
　　"See to it that he finds his way here."
　　Indicating Leia and Chewbacca, Lando told Vader, "I'll take what is mine now."He was determined to whisk them out of Vader's clutches before the Dark Lordreneged on their contract.
　　"Take them," Vader said, "but I'm keeping a detachment of troops here to watchover them."
　　"That wasn't part of the bargain," Lando protested hotly. "You said the Empirewouldn't interfere in-"
　　"I'm altering the bargain. Pray I don't alter it any further."
　　A sudden tightness grasped Lando's throat, a threatening sign of what wouldhappen to him if he gave Vader any difficulty. Lando's hand automatically went tohis neck, but in the next moment the unseen hold was released and the administratorturned to face Leia and Chewbacca. The look in his eyes might have expresseddespair, but neither of them cared to look at him at all.
　　Luke and Artoo moved cautiously through a deserted corridor.
　　It concerned Luke that thus far they had not been stopped for questioning. Noone had asked them for landing permits, identification papers, purpose of visit. Noone in Cloud City seemed at all curious about who this young man and his little droidmight be-or what they were doing there. It all seemed rather ominous, and Lukewas beginning to feel very uneasy.
　　Suddenly he heard a sound at the far end of the corridor. Luke halted, pressinghimself close against the corridor wall. Artoo, thrilled to think that they might beback among familiar droids and humans, began to whistle and beep excitedly. Lukeglanced at him to be still, and the little robot emitted one last, feeble squeak. Lukethen peered around a corner and saw a group approaching from a side hallway.Leading the group was an imposing figure in battered armor and helmet. Behindhim, two Cloud City armed guards pushed a transparent case down the corridor.From where Luke stood it appeared the case contained a floating, statuelike humanfigure. Following the case were two Imperial stormtroopers, who spotted Luke.
　　Instantly, the troopers took aim and began to fire.
　　But Luke dodged their laser bolts and, before they could shoot another round, theyouth fired his blaster, ripping two sizzling holes into the stormtroopers' armoredchests.
　　As the troopers fell, the two guards quickly whisked the encased figure intoanother hallway and the armor-clad figure leveled his laser blaster at Luke, sending adeadly bolt at him. The beam just missed the youth, and nicked a large chunk out ofthe wall next to him, shattering it into a showed of dustlike particles. When theparticles had cleared, Luke peeked back around the corner and saw that the namelessattacker, the guards, and the case had all disappeared behind a thick metal door.
　　Hearing sounds behind him, Luke turned to see Leia, Chewbacca, See-Threepio,and an unfamiliar man in a cloak moving down yet another hallway, and guarded by asmall band of Imperial stormtroopers.
　　He gestured to catch the princess's attention.
　　"Leia!" he shouted.
　　"Luke, no!" she exclaimed, her voice charged with fear. "It's a trap!"
　　Leaving Artoo trailing behind, Luke ran off to follow them. But when hereached a small anteroom, Leia and the others had disappeared. Luke heard Artoowhistling frantically as he scooted toward the anteroom. Yet, as the youth swiftlyturned, he saw a mammoth metal door crash down in front of the startled robot with athundering clang.
　　With the slamming of that door, Luke was cut off from the main corridor. And,when he turned to find another way out, he saw more metal doors bang shut in theother doorway of the chamber.
　　Meanwhile, Artoo stood somewhat dazed by the shock of his close call. If hehad rolled just a tiny bit farther into the anteroom, the door would have squashed himinto scrap metal. He pressed his metal nose against the door, then gave out a whistleof relief and wandered off in the opposite direction.
　　The anteroom was full of hissing pipes and steam that belched from the floor.Luke began to explore the room and noticed an opening above his head, leading to aplace he could not even imagine. He moved forward to get a better look, and as hedid, the section of floor he stood on began to rise slowly upward. Luke rode up withthe lifting platform, determined to face the foe he had traveled so far to meet.
　　Keeping his blaster clutched in his hand, Luke rose into the carbon-freezingchamber. Then room was deathly quiet, except for the hissing of steam escapingsome of the pipes in the room. It appeared to Luke that he was the only livingcreature in this chamber of strange machinery and chemical containers, but he sensedthat he was not alone.
　　"Vader´"
　　He spoke the name to himself as he looked around the chamber.
　　"Lord Vader. I feel your presence. Show yourself," Luke taunted his unseenenemy, "or do you fear me?"
　　While Luke spoke, the escaping steam began to billow out in great clouds.Then, unaffected by the searing heat, Vader appeared and strode through the hissingvapors, stepping onto the narrow walkway above the chamber, his black cloak trailingbehind him.
　　Luke took a cautious step toward the demonic figure in black and holstered hisblaster. He experienced a surge of confidence and felt completely ready to face theDark Lord as one Jedi against another. There was no need for his blaster. Hesensed that the Force was with him and that, at last, he was ready for this inevitablebattle. Slowly he began to mount the stairs toward Vader.
　　"The Force is with you, young Skywalker," Darth Vader said from above, "butyou are not a Jedi yet."
　　Vader's words had a chilling effect. Briefly Luke hesitated, recalling the wordsof another former Jedi Knight: "Luke, use the Force only for knowledge and fordefense, not as a weapon. Don't give in to hate or anger. They lead the way to thedark side."
　　But throwing aside any fragment of doubt, Luke gripped the smoothly finishedhandle of his lightsaber and quickly ignited the laser blade.
　　At the same instant, Vader ignited his own laser sword and quietly waited for theyoung Skywalker to attack.
　　His great hatred for Vader impelled Luke to lunge at him savagely, bring hissizzling blade down upon Vader's. But effortlessly, the Dark Lord deflected theblow with a defensive turn of his own weapon.
　　Again Luke attacked. Once again their energy blades clashed.
　　And then they stood, staring at one another for an endless moment through theircrossed lightsabers.

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
    

The Empire Strikes Back
XIII

　　Six Imperial stormtroopers guarded Lando, Leia, and Chewbacca as they marchedthrough the inner corridor of Cloud City. They reached an intersection when twelveof Lando's guards, and his aide, arrived to block their path.
　　"Code Force Seven," Lando commanded as he stopped in front of his aide.
　　At that moment the twelve guards aimed their laser weapons at the startledstormtroopers, and Lando's aide calmly took the six troopers' weapons from them.He handed one of the guns to Leia and one to Lando, then waited for the next order.
　　"Hold them in the security tower," the Cloud City administrator said. "Quietly!No one must know."
　　The guards and Lando's aide, carrying the extra weapons, marched thestormtroopers away to the tower.
　　Leia had watched this rapid turn of events in confusion. But her confusionturned to astonishment when Lando, the man who had betrayed Han Solo, beganremoving Chewbacca's bonds.
　　"Come, on," he urged. "We're getting out of here."
　　The Wookiee's giant hands were freed at last. Not caring to wait forexplanations, Chewbacca turned toward the man who had freed him, and with ablood-curdling roar, lunged at Lando and began to throttle him.
　　"After what you did to Han," Leia said, "I wouldn't trust you to-"
　　Lando, desperately trying to free himself from Chewbacca's ferocious grip, triedto explain. "I had no choice," he began-but the Wookiee interrupted him with anangry bark.
　　"There's still a chance to save Han," Lando gasped. "They're at the EastPlatform."
　　"Chewie," Leia said at last, "let's go!"
　　Still fuming, Chewbacca released Lando and glared at him as Calrissian foughtto regain his breath.
　　"Keep your eyes on him, Chewie," Leia cautioned as the Wookiee growledthreateningly.
　　"I have a feeling," Lando muttered under his breath, "that I'm making anotherbig mistake."
　　The stout little R2 unit meandered up and down the corridor, sending hisscanners in every possible direction as he tried to detect some sign of his master-orof any kind of life. He realized he was dreadfully turned around and had lost trackof how many meters he had traveled.
　　As Artoo-Detoo turned a corner he spotted a number of forms moving up thecorridor. Beeping and whistling droid greetings, he hoped that these were friendlysorts.
　　His tooting was detected by one of the creatures, who began to call out to him.
　　"Artoo´Artoo´" It was Threepio!
　　Chewbacca, still carrying the semiassembled See-Threepio, quickly turnedaround to see the stubby R2 droid rolling their way. But as the Wookiee turned,Threepio was spun out of sight of his friend.
　　"Wait!" the aggravated Threepio demanded. "Turn around, you woolly´Artoo,hurry! We're trying to save Han from the bounty hunter."
　　Artoo scooted forward, beeping all the way, and Threepio patiently replied to hisfrantic questions.
　　"I know. But Master Luke can take care of himself." At least that was whatSee-Threepio kept telling himself as the group continued its search for Han.
　　On the East Landing Platform of Cloud City, two guards shoved the frozen bodyof Han Solo through a side hatchway of the Slave 1. Boba Fett climbed up a laddernext to the opening and boarded his ship, ordering it sealed as soon as he entered thecockpit.
　　Fett ignited his ship's engines and the craft began rolling across the platform fortakeoff.
　　Lando, Leia, and Chewbacca raced onto the platform in time only to see theSlave 1 lifting off and soaring into the orange and purple of the Cloud City sunset.Raising his blaster, Chewbacca howled and fired the weapon at the departingspaceship.
　　"It's no use," Lando told him. "They're out of range."
　　All but Threepio gazed at the departing craft. Still strapped to Chewbacca'sback, he saw something that the others had not yet noticed.
　　"Oh, my, no!" he exclaimed.
　　Charging the group was a squad of Imperial stormtroopers, blasts already issuingfrom their drawn blasters. The first bolt narrowly missed Princess Leia. Landoresponded quickly in returning the enemy fire, and the air was ablaze with a brilliantcriss-cross of red and green bolts.
　　Artoo scooted over to the platform's elevator and hid inside, peeking out to seethe fury of the battle from a safe distance.
　　Lando shouted above the sounds of the blasters. "Come on, let's move!" hecalled, breaking for the open elevator and blasting at the stormtroopers as he ran.
　　But Leia and Chewbacca did not move. They stood their ground and kept up asteady fire against the assault of the stormtroopers. Troopers groaned and droppedas their chests, arms, and stomachs erupted under the fatally accurate aim of this onefemale human and one male Wookiee.
　　Lando, sticking his head out of the elevator, tried to get their attention, motioningthem to run. But the two seemed possessed as they blasted away, getting retaliationfor all of their anger and captivity and the loss of one they both loved. They weredetermined to extinguish the lives of these minions of the Galactic Empire.
　　Threepio would gladly have been anywhere else. Unable to get away, all hecould do was frantically yell for help. "Artoo, help me!" he screamed. "How did Iget into this? What a fate worse than death it is to be strapped to the back of aWookiee!"
　　"Get in here!" Lando shouted again. "Hurry up! Hurry up!"
　　Leia and Chewbacca began to move toward him, evading the erupting rain oflaser fire as they rushed inside the waiting elevator. As the elevator door closed,they glimpsed the remaining troopers racing at them.
　　Lightsaber clashed in Luke Skywalker and Darth Vader's battle on the platformabove the carbon-freezing chamber.
　　Luke felt the shaking platform shudder with every blow and parry and thrust oftheir weapons. But he was undaunted, for with every thrust of his sword he drovethe evil Darth Vader back.
　　Vader, using his lightsaber to ward off Luke's aggressive lunges, spoke calmly asthey fought. "The fear does not reach you. You have learned more than Ianticipated."
　　"You'll find I'm full of surprises," the confident youth retorted, threateningVader with yet another thrust.
　　"And I, too," was the calm, portentous reply.
　　With two graceful moves, the Dark Lord hooked Luke's weapon out of his handsand sent it flying away. A slash of Vader's energy blade at Luke's feet made theyouth jump back in an effort to protect himself. But he stumbled backward, andtumbled down the stairs.
　　Sprawled on the platform, Luke gazed up and saw the ominous dark figurelooming above him at the top of the stairs. Then the figure flew right at him, itssable cloak billowing out in the air like the wings of a monstrous bat.
　　Quickly Luke rolled to one side, not taking his eyes off Vader, as the vast blackfigure landed soundlessly next to him.
　　"Your future lies with me, Skywalker," Vader hissed, looming over the crouchingyouth. "Now you will embrace the dark side. Obi-wan knew this to be true."
　　"No!" Luke yelled, trying to fight off the evil presence.
　　"There is much Obi-wan did not tell you," Vader continued. "Come, I willcomplete your training."
　　Vader's influence was incredibly strong; it seemed to Luke like a thing alive.
　　Don't listen to him, Luke told himself. He is trying to trick me, to lead meastray, to lead me to the dark side of the Force, just like Ben warned me!
　　Luke began to back away from the advancing Sith Lord. Behind the youth, thehydraulic elevator cover silently opened, ready to receive him.
　　"I'll die first," Luke proclaimed.
　　"That won't be necessary." The Dark Lord suddenly lunged at Luke with hislightsaber, so forcefully that the youth lost his balance and tumbled into the gapingopening.
　　Vader turned away from the freezing-pit and casually deactivated his lightsaber."All too easy," he shrugged. "Perhaps you are not as strong as the Emperorthought."
　　As he spoke, molten metal began to pour into the opening behind him. And,while his back was still turned, something rose in a blur upward.
　　"Time will tell," Luke quietly replied to Vader's remark.
　　The Dark Lord spun around. At this point in the freezing process, the subjectcertainly shouldn't be able to speak! Vader glanced around the room and then turnedhis helmeted head up toward the ceiling.
　　Hanging from some hoses draped across the ceiling, Luke was suspended,having leaped some five meters into the air to escape the carbonite.
　　"Impressive," Vader admitted, "your agility is impressive."
　　Luke dropped back to the platform on the other side of the steaming pit. Hereached his hand out and his sword, lying on another part of the platform, flew backinto his grip. Immediately the lightsaber ignited.
　　Vader's sword sprang to life at the very same moment. "Ben has taught youwell. You have controlled your fear. Now release your anger. I destroyed yourfamily. Take your revenge."
　　But this time Luke was cautious and more controlled. If he could subdue hisanger, as he had finally controlled his fear, he would not be swayed.
　　Remember the training, Luke cautioned himself. Remember what Yoda taught!Cast out all hatred and anger and receive the Force!
　　Gaining control over his negative feelings, Luke began to advance, ignoringVader's goading. He lunged at Vader and, after a quick exchange, began to forcehim back.
　　"Your hatred can give you the power to destroy me," Vader tempted. "Use it."
　　Luke began to realize just how awesomely powerful his dark enemy was, andsoftly told himself, "I will not become a slave to the dark side of the Force," andmoved cautiously toward Vader.
　　As Luke approached, Vader slowly moved backward in retreat. Luke lunged athim with a powerful swing. But when Vader blocked it, he lost his balance and fellinto the outer rim of steaming pipes.
　　Luke's knee nearly buckled with the exhaustion of battling his fearsomeopponent. He gathered his strength and cautiously moved to the edge and lookeddown. But he saw no sign of Vader. Switching off his lightsaber and hooking itinto his belt, Luke lowered himself into the pit.
　　He dropped to the floor of the pit and found himself in a large control andmaintenance room that overlooked the reactor powering the entire city. Lookingaround the chamber, he noticed a large window; standing silhouetted in front of it wasthe unmoving figure of Darth Vader.
　　Luke slowly moved closer to the window and reignited his lightsaber.
　　But Vader did not light his own sword, nor did he make any effort to defendhimself as Luke drew nearer. The Dark Lord's only weapon, in fact, was histempting voice. "Attack," he goaded the young Jedi. "Destroy me."
　　Confused by Vader's ploy, Luke hesitated.
　　"Only by taking your revenge can you save yourself´"
　　Luke stood locked in place. Should he act on Vader's words and thus used theForce as a tool of revenge? Or should he step away from this battle now, hoping foranother chance to fight Vader when he had gained better control?
　　No, how could he delay the opportunity to destroy this evil being? Here washis chance, now, and he must not delay´
　　There might never again be such an opportunity!
　　Luke grasped his deadly lightsaber in both hands, tightly gripping the smoothhandle like an ancient broadsword and raising the weapon to deliver the blow thatwould slay this masked horror.
　　But before he could swing, a large piece of machinery detached itself from thewall behind him and came hurtling at his back. Turning instantly, Luke flashed hislightsaber and cut the thing in half, and the two massive pieces crashed to the floor.
　　A second piece of machinery sped toward the youth, and he again used the Forceto deflect it. The weighty object bounced away as if it had struck an unseen shield.Then a large pipe came tumbling toward him through the air. But even as Lukerepelled that enormous object, tools and pieces of machinery came flying at him fromall directions. Then wires, that pulled themselves out of the walls, came twisting andsparking and whipping at him.
　　Bombarded on all sides, Luke did what he could to deflect the assault; but he wasbeginning to get bloodied and bruised in the attempt.
　　Another large piece of machinery glanced off Luke's body and crashed out thelarge window, letting in the screaming wind. Suddenly everything in the room wasblown about, and the fierce wind lashed Luke's body and filled the room with abansheelike howl.
　　And in the very center of the room, standing still and triumphant, was DarthVader.
　　"You are beaten," the Dark Lord of the Sith gloated. "It is useless to resist.You will join me or you will join Obi-wan in death!"
　　As Vader spoke those words, a final piece of heavy machinery soared through theair, striking the young Jedi and knocking him through the broken window.Everything became a great blur as the wind carried him, tossing and rolling, until hemanaged to grab hold of a beam with one hand.
　　When the wind subsided a bit and his vision cleared, Luke realized that he washanging from the gantry of the reactor shaft outside the control room. When hegazed down he saw what appeared to be an endless abyss. A wave of dizzinessswept over him and he squeezed his eyes closed in an effort to keep from panicking.
　　Compared to the podlike reactor from which he hung, Luke was no more than aspeck of squirming matter, while the pod itself-just one of many jutting from thecircular, light-dotted inner wall-was no more than a speck itself in comparison withthe rest of the immense chamber.
　　Grasping the beam firmly with only one hand, Luke managed to hook hislightsaber on to his belt and then grab the beam with both hands. Hoisting on it, justin time to see Darth Vader walking toward him down the shaft.
　　As Vader approached Luke, the public address system began to blare, echoingthrough the cavernous rooms: "Fugitives heading toward Platform 327. Secure alltransports. All security forces on alert."
　　Walking menacingly toward Luke, Vader predicted, "Your friends will neverescape and neither will you."
　　Vader took another step, and Luke immediately raised his sword, ready to renewthe battle.
　　"You are beaten," Vader stated with horrifying certainty and finality. "It isuseless to resist."
　　But Luke did resist. He lunged at the Dark Lord with a vicious blow, bringinghis sizzling laser blade to crash onto Vader's armor and sear through to the flesh.Vader staggered from the blow, and it seemed to Luke that he was in pain. But onlyfor a moment. Then, once again, Vader began to move toward him.
　　Taking another step, the Dark Lord warned, "Don't let yourself be destroyed asObi-wan was."
　　Luke was breathing hard, cold sweat dropping from his forehead. But thesound of Ben's name instilled a sudden resolve in him.
　　"Calm-" he reminded himself. "Be calm."
　　But the grimly cloaked specter stalked toward him along the narrow gentry, andit seemed he wanted the young Jedi's life.
　　Or worse, his fragile soul.
　　Lando, Leia, Chewbacca, and the droids hurried down a corridor. They turneda corner and saw the door to the landing platform standing open. Through it theyglimpsed the Millennium Falcon waiting for their escape. But suddenly the doorslammed shut. Ducking into an alcove, the group saw a squad of stormtrooperscharging them, their laser guns blasting as they ran. Chunks of wall and floorshattered and flew into the air with the impact of the ricocheting energy beams.
　　Chewbacca growled, returning the stormtroopers' fire with savage Wookiee rage.He covered Leia, who punched desperately at the door's control panel. But the doorfailed to budge.
　　"Artoo!" Threepio called. "The control panel. You can override the alertsystem."
　　Threepio gestured at the panel, urging the little robot to hurry, and pointing out acomputer socket on the control board.
　　Artoo-Detoo scooted toward the control panel, beeping and whistling as hescurried to help.
　　Twisting his body to avoid the burning laser bolts, Lando feverishly worked toconnect this comlink to the panel's intercom.
　　"This is Calrissian," he broadcast over the system. "The Empire is takingcontrol of the city. I advise you to leave before more Imperial troops arrive."
　　He switched off the communicator. Lando knew that he had done what hecould to warn his people; his job now was to get his friends safely off the planet.
　　Meanwhile, Artoo removed a connector cover and inserted an extendedcomputer arm into the waiting socket. The droid issued a short beep that suddenlyturned into a wild robot scream. He began to quiver, his circuits lighting up in a maddisplay of flashing brilliance, and every orifice in his hull spewing smoke. Landoquickly pulled Artoo away from the power socket. As the droid began to cool off, hedirected a few wilted beeps Threepio's way.
　　"Well, next time you pay more attention," Threepio replied defensively. "I'mnot supposed to know power sockets from computer feeds. I'm an interpreter-"
　　"Anybody else got any ideas?" Leia shouted as she stood firing at the attackingstormtroopers.
　　"Come on," Lando answered over the din of the battle, "we'll try another way."
　　The wind that shrieked through the reactor shaft entirely absorbed the sounds ofthe clashing lightsabers.
　　Luke moved agilely across the gantry and took refuge beneath a huge instrumentpanel to evade his pursuing foe. But Vader was there in an instant, his lightsaberthrashing down like a pulsating guillotine blade, cutting the instrument complex loose.the complex began to fall, but was abruptly caught by the wind and blown upward.
　　An instant of distraction was all Vader needed. As the instrument panel floatedaway, Luke involuntarily glanced at it. At that second, the Dark Lord's laser bladecame slashing down across Luke's hand, cutting it, and sending the youth's lightsaberflying.
　　The pain was excruciating. Luke smelled the terrible odor of his own searedflesh and squeezed his forearm beneath his armpit to try to stop the agony. Hestepped backward along the gantry until he reached its extreme end, stalked all thewhile by the black-garbed apparition.
　　Abruptly, ominously, the wind subsided. And Luke realized he had nowhereelse to go.
　　"There is no escape," the Dark Lord of the Sith warned, looming over Luke likea black angel of death. "Don't make me destroy you. You are strong with theForce. Now you must learn to use the dark side. Join me and together we will bemore powerful than the Emperor. Come, I will complete your training and we willrule the galaxy together."
　　Luke refused to give in to Vader's taunts. "I will never join you!"
　　"If you only knew the power of the dark side," Vader continued. "Obi-wannever told you what happened to your father, did he?"
　　mention of his father aroused Luke's anger. "He told me enough!" he yelled."He told me you killed him."
　　"No," Vader replied calmly. "I am your father."
　　Stunned, Luke stared with disbelief at the black-clad warrior and then pulledaway at this revelation. The two warriors stood staring at one another, father andson.
　　"No, no! That's not true´" Luke said, refusing to believe what he had justheard. "That's impossible."
　　"Search your feelings," Vader said, sounding like an evil version of Yoda, "youknow it to be true."
　　Then Vader turned off the blade of his lightsaber and extended a steady andinviting hand.
　　Bewildered and horror-stricken at Vader's words, Luke shouted, "No! No!"
　　Vader continued persuasively. "Luke, you can destroy the Emperor. He hasforeseen this. It is your destiny. Join me and together we can rule the galaxy asfather and son. Come with me. It is the only way."
　　Luke's mind whirled with those words. Everything was finally beginning tocoalesce in his brain. Or was it? He wondered if Vader were telling him thetruth-if the training of Yoda, the teaching of saintly old Ben, his own strivings forgood and his abhorrence of evil, if everything he had fought for were no more than alie.
　　He didn't want to believe Vader, tried convincing himself that it was Vader wholied to him-but somehow he could feel the truth in the Dark Lord's words. But, ifDarth Vader did speak the truth, why, he wondered, had Ben Kenobi lied to him?Why? His mind screamed louder than any wind the Dark Lord could ever summonagainst him.
　　The answers no longer seemed to matter.
　　His Father.
　　With the calmness that Ben himself and Yoda, the Jedi Master, had taught him,Luke Skywalker made, perhaps, what might be his final decision of all. "Never,"Luke shouted as he stepped out into the empty abyss beneath him. For all itsunperceived depth, Luke might have been falling to another galaxy.
　　Darth Vader moved to the end of the gantry to watch as Luke tumbled away. Astrong wind began to blow, billowing Vader's black cloak out behind him as he stoodlooking over the edge.
　　Skywalker's body quickly plunged downward. Toppling head over foot, thewounded Jedi desperately reached out to grab at something to stop his fall.
　　The Dark Lord watched until he saw the youth's body sucked into a largeexhaust pipe in the side of the reactor shaft. When Luke vanished, Vader quicklyturned and hurried off the platform.
　　Luke sped through the exhaust shaft trying to grab the sides to slow his fall.But the smooth, shiny sides of the pipe had no hand-holes or ridges for Luke to grasp.
　　At last he came to the end of the tunnellike pipe, his feet striking hard against acircular grill. The grill, which opened over an apparently bottomless drop, wasknocked out by the impact of Luke's momentum, and he felt his body starts to slideout through the opening. Frantically clawing at the smooth interior of the pipe, Lukebegan to call out for assistance.
　　"Ben´Ben, help me," he pleaded desperately.
　　Even as he called out, he felt his fingers slip along the inside of the pipe, whilehis body inched ever closer to the yawning opening.
　　Cloud City was in chaos.
　　As soon as Lando Calrissian's broadcast was heard throughout the city, itsresidents began to panic. Some of them packed a few belongings, others just rushedout into the streets seeking escape. Soon the streets were filled with running humansand aliens, rushing chaotically through the city. Imperial stormtroopers charged afterthe fleeing inhabitants, exchanging laser fire with them in a raging, clamorous battle.
　　In one of the city's central corridors, Lando, Leia, and Chewbacca held off asquad of stormtroopers by blasting heavy rounds of laser bolts at the Imperial warriors.It was urgent that Lando and the others hold their ground, for they had come uponanother entrance that would lead them to the landing platform. If only Artoosucceeded in opening the door.
　　Artoo was trying to remove the plate from this door's control panel. Butbecause of the noise and distraction of the laser fire blasting around him, it wasdifficult for the little droid to concentrate on his work. He beeped to himself as heworked, sounding a bit befuddled to Threepio.
　　"What are you talking about?" Threepio called to him. "We're not interested inthe hyperdrive on the Millennium Falcon. It's fixed. Just tell the computer to openthe door."
　　Then, as Lando, Leia, and the Wookiee edged toward the door, dodging heavyImperial laser fire, Artoo beeped triumphantly and the door snapped open.
　　"Artoo, you did it!" Threepio exclaimed. The droid would have applauded hadhis other arm been attached. "I never doubted you for a second."
　　"Hurry," Lando shouted, "or we'll never make it."
　　The helpful R2 unit came through once again. As the others dashed through theentrance, the stout robot sprayed out a thick fog-as dense as the clouds surroundingthis world-that obscured his friends from the encroaching stormtroopers. Beforethe cloud had cleared, Lando and the others were racing toward Platform 327.
　　The stormtroopers followed, blasting at the small band of fugitive bolting towardthe Millennium Falcon. Chewbacca and the robots boarded the freighter whileLando and Leia covered them with their blasters, cutting down still more of theEmperor's warriors.
　　When the low-pitched roar of the Falcon's engines started and then rose to anear-battering whine, Lando and Leia discharged a few more bolts of brilliant energy.Then they sprinted up the ramp. They entered the pirate ship and the main hatchwayclosed behind them. And as the ship began to move, they heard a barrage ofImperial laser fire that sounded as if the entire planet were splitting apart at itsfoundations.
　　Luke could no longer slow his inexorable slide out the exhaust pipe.
　　He slid the final few centimeters and then dropped through the cloudyatmosphere, his body spinning and his arms flailing to grip on to something solid.
　　After what seemed like forever, he caught hold of an electronic weather vane thatjutted out from the bowllike underside of Cloud City. Winds buffeted him andclouds swirled around him as he held on tightly to the weather vane. But hisstrength was beginning to fail; he didn't think he could hang like this-suspendedabove the gaseous surface-for very much longer.
　　All was very quiet in the Millennium Falcon cockpit.
　　Leia, just catching her breath from their close escape, sat in Han Solo's chair.Thoughts of him rushed to her mind, but she tried not to worry about him, tried not tomiss him.
　　Behind the princess, looking over her shoulder out the front windscreen, stood asilent and exhausted Lando Calrissian.
　　Slowly the ship began to move, picking up speed as it coursed along the landingplatform.
　　The giant Wookiee, in his old copilot's chair, threw a series of switches thatbrought a dancing array of lights across the ship's main control panel. Pulling thethrottle, Chewbacca began to guide the ship upward, to freedom.
　　Clouds rushed by the cockpit windows and everyone finally breathed with reliefas the Millennium Falcon soared into a red-orange twilight sky.
　　Luke managed to hook one of his legs over the electronic weather vane, whichcontinued to support his weight. But air from the exhaust pipe rushed at him,making it difficult for him to keep from slipping off the vane.
　　"Ben´" he moaned in agony. "´Ben."
　　Darth Vader strode onto the empty landing platform and watched the speck thatwas the Millennium Falcon disappears in the far distance.
　　He turned to his two aides. "Bring my ship in!" he commanded. And then heleft, black robes flowing behind him, to prepare for his journey.
　　Somewhere near the supporting stalk of Cloud City, Luke spoke again.Concentrating his mind on one whom he thought cared for him and might somehowcome to his aid, he called, "Leia, hear me." Pitifully he cried out once again."Leia."
　　Just then, a large piece of the weather vane broke off and went hurtling off intothe clouds far below. Luke tightened his grip on what remained of the vane, andstrained to hold on in the blast of air rushing at him from the pipe above.
　　"It looks like three fighters," Lando said to Chewbacca as they watched thecomputer-screen configurations. "We can outdistance them easily," he added,knowing the capabilities of the freighter as well as Han Solo did.Looking at Leia, he mourned the passing of his administratorship. "I know thatsetup was too good to last," he moaned. "I'm going to miss it."
　　But Leia seemed to be in a daze. She didn't acknowledge Lando's comments,but stared straight ahead of her as if transfixed. Then, out of her dreamlike trance,she spoke. "Luke?" she said, as if responding to something she heard.
　　"What?" Lando asked.
　　"We've got to go back," she said urgently. "Chewie, head for the bottom of thecity."
　　Lando looked at her in astonishment. "Wait a minute. We're not going backthere!"
　　The Wookiee barked, for once in agreement with Lando.
　　"No argument," Leia said firmly, assuming the dignity of one accustomed tohaving her orders obeyed. "Just do it! That's a command!"
　　"What about those fighters?" Lando argued as he pointed to three TIE fightersclosing in on them. He looked to Chewbacca for support.
　　But, growling menacingly, Chewbacca conveyed that he knew who was incommand now.
　　"Okay, okay," Lando quietly acquiesced.
　　With all the grace and speed for which the Millennium Falcon was famed, theship banked through the clouds and turned back toward the city. And, as thefreighter continued on what could become a suicide run, the three pursuing TIEfighters matched its turn.
　　Luke Skywalker was unaware of the Millennium Falcon's approach. Barelyconscious, he somehow maintained his hold on the creaking and swaying weathervane. The device bent under the weight of his body, then completely broke off fromits foundation, and sent Luke tumbling helplessly through the sky. And this time, heknew, there would be nothing for him to cling to as he fell.
　　"Look!" Lando exclaimed, indicating a figure plunging in the distance."Someone's falling´"
　　Leia managed to remain calm; she knew that panic would doom them all. "Getunder him, Chewie," she told the pilot. "It's Luke."
　　Chewbacca immediately responded and carefully eased the Millennium Falconon a descent trajectory.
　　"Lando," Leia called, turning to him, "open the top hatch."
　　As he rushed out of the cockpit, Lando thought it a strategy worthy of Solohimself.
　　Chewbacca and Leia could see Luke's plunging body more clearly, and theWookiee guided the ship toward him. As Chewie retarded the ship's speeddrastically, the plummeting form skimmed the windscreen and then landed with athud against the outer hull.
　　Lando opened the upper hatch. In the distance he glimpsed the three TIEfighters approaching the Falcon, their laser guns brightening the twilight sky withstreaks of hot destruction. Lando stretched his body out of the hatch and reached tograsp the battered warrior and pull him inside the ship. Just then Falcon lurched as abolt exploded near it, and almost threw Luke's body overboard. But Lando caughthis hand and held on tightly.
　　The Millennium Falcon veered away from Cloud City and soared through thethick billowing cloud cover. Swerving to avoid the blinding flak from the TIEfighters, Princess Leia and the Wookiee pilot struggled to keep their ship skyborne.But explosions burst all around the cockpit, the din competing with Chewbacca'showl as he frantically worked the controls.
　　Leia switched on the intercom. "Lando, is he all right?" she shouted over thenoise in the cockpit. "Lando, do you hear me?"
　　From the rear of the cockpit, she heard a voice that wasn't Lando's. "He'llsurvive," Luke replied faintly.
　　Leia and Chewbacca turned to see Luke, bettered and bloodied and wrapped in ablanket, being helped into the cockpit by Lando. The princess jumped up from herchair and hugged him ecstatically. Chewbacca, still trying to guide the ship out ofthe TIE fighter' range of fire, threw back his head and barked in jubilation.
　　Behind the Millennium Falcon, the planet of clouds was receding farther in thedistance. But the TIE fighters kept up their close pursuit, firing their laser weaponsand rocking the pirate craft with each on-target hit.
　　Working diligently in the Falcon's hold, Artoo-Detoo struggled against theconstant lunging and tossing to reassemble his golden friend. Meticulously trying toundo the mistakes of the well-intentioned Wookiee, the little droid beeped as heperformed the intricate task.
　　"Very good," the protocol droid praised. His head was on properly and hissecond arm was nearly completely reattached. "Good as new."
　　Artoo beeped apprehensively.
　　"No, Artoo, don't worry. I'm sure we'll make it this time."
　　But in the cockpit, Lando was not so optimistic. He saw the warning lights onthe control panel begin to flash; suddenly alarms all over the ship went on. "Thedeflector shields are going," he reported to Leia and Chewbacca.
　　Leia looked over Lando's shoulder and noticed another blip, ominously large,that had appeared on radarscope. "There's another ship," she said, "much bigger,trying to cut us off."
　　Luke quietly gazed out the cockpit window toward the starry void. Almost tohimself, he said, "It's Vader."
　　Admiral Piett approached Vader, who stood on the bridge of this, the greatest ofall Imperial Star Destroyers, and stared out the windows.
　　"They'll be in range of the tractor beam in moments," the admiral reportedconfidently.
　　"And their hyperdrive has been deactivated?" Vader asked.
　　"Right after they were captured, sir."
　　"Good," the giant black-robed figure said. "Prepare for the boarding and setyour weapons for stun."
　　The Millennium Falcon so far had managed to evade its TIE fighter pursuers.But could it escape attack from the ominous Star Destroyer that pressed toward it,ever closer?
　　"We don't have any room for mistakes," Leia said tensely, watching the largeblip on the monitors.
　　"If my men said they fixed this baby, they fixed it," Lando assured her. "We'vegot nothing to worry about."
　　"Sounds familiar," Leia mused to herself.
　　The ship was rocked again by the concussion of another laser explosion, but atthat moment a green light began flashing on the control panel.
　　"The coordinates are set, Chewie," Leia said. "It's now or never."
　　The Wookiee barked in agreement. He was ready for the hyperdrive escape.
　　"Punch it!" Lando yelled.
　　Chewbacca shrugged as if to say it was worth a try. He pulled back on thelight-speed throttle, suddenly altering the sound of the ion engines. All on boardwere praying in human and droid fashion that the system would work; they had noother hope of escape. But abruptly the sound choked and died and Chewbaccaroared a howl of desperate frustration.
　　Again the hyperdrive system had failed them.
　　And still the Millennium Falcon lurched with the TIE fighters' fire.
　　From his Imperial Star Destroyer, Darth Vader watched in fascination as the Tiefighters relentlessly fired at the Millennium Falcon. Vader's ship was closing in onthe fleeing Falcon-it would not be long before the Dark Lord had Skywalkercompletely in his power.
　　And Luke sensed it, too. Quietly he gazed out, knowing that Vader was near,that his victory over the weakened Jedi would soon be complete. His body wasbattered, was exhausted; his spirit was prepared to succumb to his fate. There wasno reason to fight any more-there was nothing left to believe in.
　　"Ben," he whispered in utter despair, "why didn't you tell me?"
　　Lando tried to adjust some controls, and Chewbacca leaped from his chair to racethe hold. Leia took Chewbacca's seat and helped Lando as they flew the Falconthrough the exploding flak.
　　As the Wookiee ran into the hold, he passed Artoo, who was still working onThreepio. The R2 unit began to beep in great consternation as he scanned theWookiee frantically trying to fix the hyperdrive system.
　　"I said we're doomed!" the panicked Threepio told Artoo. "The light-speedengines are malfunctioning again."
　　Artoo beeped as he connected a leg.
　　"How could you know what's wrong?" the golden droid scoffed. "Ouch!Mind my foot! And stop chattering on so."
　　Lando's voice sounded in the hold through the intercom. "Chewie, check thesecondary deviation controls."
　　Chewbacca dropped into the hold's pit. He fought to loosen a section of thepaneling with an enormous wrench. But it failed to budge. Roaring in frustration,he gripped the tool like a club and bashed the panel with all his strength.
　　Suddenly the cockpit control panel sprayed Lando and the princess with ashower of sparks. They jumped back in their seats in surprise, but Luke didn'tseemed to notice anything happening around him. His head hung in discouragementand deep pain.
　　"I won't be able to resist him," he muttered softly.
　　Again Lando banked the Millennium Falcon, trying to shed the pursuers. Butthe distance between the freighter and TIE fighters was narrowing by the moment.
　　In the Millennium Falcon's hold, Artoo raced to a control panel, leaving anoutraged Threepio to stand sputtering in place on his one attached leg. Artooworked swiftly, relying only on mechanical instinct to reprogram the circuit board.Lights flashed brightly with each of Artoo's adjustments, when suddenly, from deepwithin the Falcon's hyperspeed engines, a new and powerful hum resonatedthroughout the ship.
　　The freighter tilted suddenly, sending the whistling R2 droid rolling across thefloor into the pit to land on the startled Chewbacca.
　　Lando, who had been standing near the control panel, tumbled back against thecockpit wall. But as he fell back, he saw the stars outside become blinding, infinitestreaks of light.
　　"We did it!" Lando yelled triumphantly.
　　The Millennium Falcon had shot victoriously into hyperdrive.
　　Darth Vader stood silently. He gazed at the black void where, a moment before,the Millennium Falcon had been. His deep, black silence brought terror to the twomen standing near him. Admiral Piett and his captain waited, chills of fear coursingthrough their bodies, and wondered how soon they would feel the invisible, viseliketalons around their throats.
　　But the Dark Lord did not move. He stood, silently contemplative, with hishands behind his back. Then he turned and slowly walked off the bridge, his eboncloak billowing behind him.

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
    

The Empire Strikes Back
XIV

　　The Millennium Falcon was at last safely docked on a huge Rebel cruiser. Gleamingin the distance was a glorious red glow that radiated from a large red star-a glow thatshed its crimson light on the battered hull of the small freighter craft.
　　Luke Skywalker rested in the medical center of the Rebel Star Cruiser, where hewas attended by the surgeon droid called Too-Onebee. The youth sat quietly,thoughtfully, while Too-Onebee gently began to look at his wounded hand.
　　Gazing up, Luke saw Leia, followed by See-Threepio and Artoo-Detoo, enteringthe medical center to check his progress and, perhaps, bring him a little cheer. ButLuke knew that the best therapy he had received yet aboard this cruiser was in theradiant image before him.
　　Princess Leia was smiling. Her eyes were wide and sparkling with a wondrousglow. She looked just as she had that first time he saw her-a lifetime ago, itseemed-when Artoo-Detoo first projected her holographic image. And, in herfloor-length, high-necked gown of purest white, she looked angelic.
　　Raising his hand, Luke offered it to the expert service of Too-Onebee. Thesurgeon droid examined the bionic hand that was skillfully fused to Luke's arm.Then the robot wrapped a soft metalized strip about the hand and attached a smallelectronic unit to the strip, tightening it slightly. Luke made a fist with his new handand felt the healing pulsations imparted by Too-Onebee's apparatus. Then he let hishand and arm relax.
　　Leia and the two droids moved closer to Luke as a voice came over an intercomloudspeaker. It was Lando: "Luke´" the voice blared, "we're ready for takeoff."
　　Lando Calrissian sat in the Millennium Falcon's pilot's chair. He had missedhis old freighter, but now that he was once again its captain, he felt quiteuncomfortable. In his copilot's chair, the great Wookiee Chewbacca noticed his newcaptain's discomfort while he began to throw the switches to ready the ship fortakeoff.
　　Luke's voice came over Lando's comlink speaker: "I'll meet you on Tatooine."
　　Again Lando spoke into his comlink microphone, but this time he spoke to Leia:"Don't worry, Leia," he said with emotion, "we'll find Han."
　　And leaning over, Chewbacca barked his farewell into the microphone-a barkthat may have transcended the limits of time and space to be heard by Han Solo,wherever the bounty hunter had taken him.
　　It was Luke who spoke the final farewell, though he refused to say good-bye."Take care, my friends," he said with a new maturity in his voice. "May The ForceBe With You."
　　Leia stood alone at the great circular window of the Rebel Star Cruiser, her slimwhite-draped form dwarfed by the vast canopy of stars and the drifting ships of thefleet. She watched the majestic scarlet star that burned in the infinite black sea.
　　Luke, with Threepio and Artoo tagging along, moved to stand next to her. Heunderstood what she was feeling for he knew how terrible such a loss could be.
　　Standing together, the group faced the inviting heavens and saw the MillenniumFalcon moving into view, then veering off in another direction to soar with greatdignity through the Rebel fleet. Soon the Millennium Falcon had left the fleet in itswake.
　　They needed, no words in this moment. Luke knew that Leia's mind and heartwere with Han, no matter where he was or what his fate might be. As to his owndestiny, he was now more uncertain about himself than he had ever been-evenbefore this simple farm boy on a distant world first learned of the intangiblesomething called the Force. He only knew he had to return to Yoda and finish histraining before he set off to rescue Han.
　　Slowly he put his arm around Leia and together with Threepio and Artoo, theyfaced the heavens bravely, each of them gazing at the same crimson star.

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
    

Return of The Jedi
Prologue

　　The very depth of space. There was the length, and width, and height; and thenthese dimensions curved over on themselves into a bending blackness measurableonly by the glinting stars that tumbled through the chasm, receding to infinity. Tothe very depth.
　　These stars marked the moments of the universe. There were aging orangeembers, blue dwarfs, twin yellow giants. There were collapsing neutron stars, andangry supernovae that hissed into the icy emptiness. There were borning stars,breathing stars, pulsing stars, and dying stars. There was the Death Star.
　　At the feathered edge of the galaxy, the Death Star floated in stationary orbitabove the green moon Endor-a moon whose mother planet had long since died ofunknown cataclysm and disappeared into unknown realms. The Death Star was theEmpire's armored battle station, nearly twice as big as its predecessor, which Rebelforces had destroyed so many years before-nearly twice as big, but more than twiceas powerful. Yet it was only half complete.
　　Half a steely dark orb, it hung above the green world of Endor, tentacles ofunfinished superstructure curling away toward its living companion like the gropinglegs of a deadly spider.
　　An Imperial Star Destroyer approached the giant space station at cruising speed.It was massive-a city itself-yet it moved with deliberate grace, like some great seadragon. It was accompanied by dozens of Twin Ion Engines fighters-blackinsectlike combat flyers that zipped back and forth around the battle ship's perimeter:scouting, sounding, docking, regrouping.
　　Soundlessly the main bay of the ship opened. There was a brief ignition-flash,as an Imperial shuttle emerged from the darkness of the hold, into the darkness ofspace. It sped toward the half-completed Death Star with quiet purpose.
　　In the cockpit the shuttle captain and his copilot made final readings, monitoreddescent functions. It was a sequence they'd each performed a thousand times, yetthere was an unusual tension in the air now. The captain flipped the transmitterswitch, and spoke into his mouthpiece.
　　"Command Station, this is ST321. Code Clearance Blue. We're starting ourapproach. Deactivate the security shield."
　　Static filtered over the receiver; then the voice of the port controller: "Thesecurity deflector shield will be deactivated when we have confirmation of your codetransmission. Stand by´"
　　Once more silence filled the cockpit. The shuttle captain bit the inside of hischeek, smiled nervously at his copilot, and muttered, "Quick as you can, please-thisbetter not take long. He's in no mood to wait.."
　　They refrained from glancing back into the passenger section of the shuttle, nowunder lights-out for landing. The unmistakable sound of the mechanical breathingcoming from the chamber's shadow filled the cabin with a terrible impatience.
　　In the control room of Death Star below, operators moved along the bank ofpanels, monitoring all the space traffic in the area, authorizing flight patterns,accessing certain areas to certain vehicles. The shield operator suddenly checked hismonitor with alarm; the view-screen depicted the battle station itself, the moon Endor,and a web of energy-the deflector shield-emanating from the green moon,encompassing the Death Star. Only now, the security web was beginning to separate,to retract and form a clear channel-a channel through which the dot that was theImperial shuttle sailed, unimpeded, toward the massive space station.
　　The shield operator quickly called his control officer over to the view-screen,uncertain how to proceed.
　　"What is it?" the officer demanded.
　　"That shuttle has a class-one priority ranking." He tried to replace the fear inhis voice with disbelief.
　　The officer glanced at the view-screen for only a moment before realizing whowas on the shuttle and spoke to himself: "Vader!"
　　He strode past the view port, where the shuttle could be seen already making itsfinal approach, and headed toward the docking bay. He turned to the controller.
　　"Inform the commander that Lord Vader's shuttle has arrived.
　　The shuttle sat quietly, dwarfed by the cavernous reaches of the huge dockingbay. Hundreds of troops stood assembled in formation, flanking the base of theshuttle ramp-white armored Imperial stormtroopers, gray-suited officers, and elite,red-robed Imperial Guard. They snapped to attention as Moff Jerjerrod entered.
　　Jerjerrod-tall, thin, arrogant-was the Death Star commander. He walkedwithout hurry up the ranks of soldiers, to the ramp of the shuttle. Hurry was not inJerjerrod, for hurry implied a wanting to be elsewhere, and he was a man whodistinctively was exactly where he wanted to be. Great men never hurried (he wasfond of saying); great men caused others to hurry.
　　Yet Jerjerrod was not blind to ambition; and a visit by such a one as this greatDark Lord could not be taken too lightly. He stood at the shuttle mouth, therefore,waiting-with respect, but not hurry.
　　Suddenly the exit hatch of the shuttle opened, pulling the troops in formation toeven tauter attention. Only darkness glowed from the exit at first; then footsteps;then the characteristic electrical respirations, like the breathing of a machine; andfinally Darth Vader, Lord of the Sith, emerged from the void.
　　Vader strode down the ramp, looking over the assemblage. He stopped when hecame to Jerjerrod. The commander bowed from the neck, and smiled.
　　"Lord Vader, this is an unexpected pleasure. We are honored by yourpresence."
　　"We can dispense with the pleasantries, Commander." Vader's words echoed asfrom the bottom of a well. "The Emperor is concerned with your progress. I amhere to put you back on schedule."
　　Jerjerrod turned to pale. This was news he'd not expected. "I assure you,Lord Vader, my men are working as fast as they can."
　　Perhaps I can encourage their progress in ways you have not considered," Vadergrowled. He had ways, of course; this was known. Ways, and ways again.
　　Jerjerrod kept his tone even, though deep inside, the ghost of hurry began toscrabble at his throat. "That won't be necessary, my Lord. I tell you, withoutquestion this station will be operational as planned."
　　"I'm afraid the Emperor does not share your optimistic appraisal of thesituation."
　　"I fear he asks the impossible," the commander suggested.
　　"Perhaps you could explain that to him when he arrives." Vader's face remainedinvisible behind the deathly black mask that protected him; but the malice was clear inthe electronically modified voice.
　　Jerjerrod's pallor intensified. "The Emperor is coming here?"
　　"Yes, Commander. And he will be quite displeased if you are still behindschedule when he arrives." He spoke loudly, to spread the threat over all who couldhear.
　　"We shall double our efforts, Lord Vader." And he meant it. For sometimesdidn't even great men hurry, in time of great need?
　　Vader lowered his voice again. "I hope so, Commander, for your sake. TheEmperor will tolerate no further delay in the final destruction of the outlaw Rebellion.And we have secret news now"-he included Jerjerrod, only, in this intimatedetail-"The Rebel fleet has gathered all its forces into a single giant armada. Thetime is at hand when we can crush them, without mercy, in a single blow."
　　For the briefest second, Vader's breathing seemed to quicken, then resumed itsmeasured pace, like the rising of hollow wind.

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
    

Return of The Jedi
I

　　Outside the small adobe hut, the sandstorm wailed like a beast in agony, refusing todie. Inside, the sounds were muted.
　　It was cooler in this shelter, more hushed, and darker. While the beast withouthowled, in this place of nuance and shadow a shrouded figure worked.
　　Tanned hands, holding arcane tools, extended from the sleeves of a caftanlikerobe. The figure crouched on the ground, working. Before him lay a discoiddevice of strange design, wires trailing from it at one end, symbols etched into its flatsurface. He connected the wires end to a tubular, smooth handle, pulled through anorganic-looking connector, locked it in place with another tool. He motioned to ashadow in the corner; the shadow moved toward him.
　　Tentatively, the obscure form rolled closer to the robed figure. "Vrrr-ditdweet?" the little R2 unit questioned timidly as it approached, pausing when it wasjust a foot from the shrouded man with the strange device.
　　The shrouded man motioned the droid nearer still. Artoo-Detoo scooted the lastdistance, blinking; and the hands raised toward his domed little head.
　　The fine sand blew hard over the dunes of Tatooine. The wind seemed to comefrom everywhere at once, typhooning in spots, swirling in devil-winds here, hoveringin stillness there, without pattern or meaning.
　　A road wound across the desert plain. It nature changed constantly, at onemoment obscured by drifts of ochre sand, the next moment swept clean, or distortedby the heat of the shimmering air above it. A road more ephemeral than navigable;yet a road to be followed, all the same. For it was the only way to reach the palaceof Jabba the Hut.
　　Jabba was the vilest gangster in the galaxy. He had his fingers in smuggling,slave-trading, murder; his minions scattered across the stars. He both collected andinvented atrocities, and his court was a den of unparalleled decay. It was said bysome that Jabba had chosen Tatooine as his place of residence because only in thisarid crucible of a planet could he hope to keep his soul from rotting awayaltogether-here the parched sun might bake his humor to festering brine.
　　In any case, it was a place few of kind spirit even knew of, let alone approached.It was a place of evil, where even the most courageous felt their powers wilt under thefoul gaze of Jabba's corruption.
　　"Poot-wEEt beDOO gung ooble DEEp!" vocalized Artoo-Detoo.
　　"Of course I'm worried," See-Threepio fussed. "And you should be too. PoorLando Calrissian never returned from this place. Can you imagine what they'vedone to him?"
　　Artoo whistled timidly.
　　The golden droid waded stiffly through a shifting sand hill, then stopped short, asJabba's palace suddenly loomed, suddenly dark, in the near distance. Artoo almostbumped into him, quickly skidding to the side of the road.
　　"Watch where you're going, Artoo." See-Threepio resumed walking, but moreslowly, his little friend rolling along at his side. And as they went, he chattered on."Why couldn't Chewbacca have delivered this message? No, whenever there's animpossible mission, they turn to us. No one worries about droids. Sometimes Iwonder why we put up with it all."
　　On and on he rambled, over the desolate final stretch of road, until at last theyreached the gates to the palace: massive iron doors, taller than Threepio couldsee-part of a series of stone and iron walls, forming several gigantic cylindricaltowers that seemed to rise out of a mountain of packed sand.
　　The two droids fearfully looked around the ominous door for signs of life, orwelcome, or some sort of signaling device with which to make their presence known.Seeing nothing in any of those categories, See-Threepio mustered his resolve (whichfunction had been programmed into him quite a long time earlier), knocked softlythree times on the thick metal gate, then quickly turned around and announced toArtoo, "There doesn't seem to be anyone here. Let's go back and tell Master Luke."
　　Suddenly a small hatch opened in the center of the door. A spindly mechanicalarm popped out, affixed to which a large electronic eyeball peered unabashedly at thetwo droids. The eyeball spoke.
　　"Tee chuta hhat yudd!"
　　Threepio stood erect, proud though his circuits quivered a bit. He faced the eye,pointed to Artoo, and then to himself. "Artoo Detoowha bo Seethreepoiosha eytoota odd mischka Jabba du Hutt."
　　The eye looked quickly from one robot to the other, then retracted back throughthe little window and slammed the hatch shut.
　　"Boo-dEEp gaNOOng," whispered Artoo with concern.
　　Threepio nodded. "I don't think they're going to let us in, Artoo. We'd bettergo." He turned to leave, as Artoo beeped a reluctant four-tone.
　　At that, a horrific, grinding screech erupted, and the massive iron door slowlybegan to rise. The two droids looked at each other skeptically, and then into theyawning black cavity that faced them. They waited, afraid to enter, afraid to retreat.
　　From the shadow, the strange voice of the eye screamed at them: "Nudd chaa!"
　　Artoo beeped and rolled forward into the gloom. Threepio hesitated, thenrushed after his stubby companion with a start. "Artoo wait for me!" They stoppedtogether in a gaping passageway, as Threepio scolded: "You'll get lost."
　　The great door slammed shut behind them with a monumental crash that echoedthrough the dark cavern. For a moment the two frightened robots stood therewithout moving; then, haltingly, they stepped forward.
　　They were immediately joined by three large Gamorrean guards-powerfulpiglike brutes whose racial hatred of robots was well known. The guards usheredthe two droids down the dark corridor without so much as a nod. When they reachedthe first half-lit hallway, one of them grunted an order. Artoo beeped a nervousquery at Threepio.
　　"You don't want to know," the golden droid responded apprehensively. "Justdeliver Master Luke's message and get us out of here quick."
　　Before they could take another step, a form approached them from the obscurityof a cross-corridor: Bib Fortuna, the inelegant major-domo of Jabba's degeneratecourt. He was a tall, humanoid creature with eyes that saw only what was necessary,and a robot that hid all. Protruding from the back of his skull were two fat,tentacular appendages that exhibited prehensile, sensual, and cognitive functions atvarious times-which he wore either draped over his shoulders for decorative effector, when the situation called for balance, hanging straight down behind him as if theywere twin tails,
　　He smiled thinly as he stopped before the two robots. "Die wanna wanga."
　　Threepio spoke up officially. "Die wanna wanga. We bring a message to yourmaster, Jabba the Hutt." Artoo beeped a postscript, upon which Threepio noddedand added: "And a gift." He thought about this a moment, looked as puzzled as itwas possible for a droid to look, and whispered loudly to Artoo, "Gift, what gift?"
　　Bib shook his head emphatically. "Nee Jabba no badda. Me chaade sugoodie." He held out his hand toward Artoo.
　　The small droid backed up meekly, but his protest was lengthy. "bDooo EENGwrrr Op dbooDEEop!"
　　"Artoo, give it to him!" Threepio insisted. Sometimes Artoo could be sobinary.
　　At this, though, Artoo became positively defiant, beeping and tooting at Fortunaand Threepio as if they'd both had their programs erased.
　　Threepio nodded finally, hardly happy with Artoo's answer. He smiledapologetically at Bib. "He says our master's instructions are to give it only to Jabbahimself." Bib considered the problem a moment, as Threepio went on explaining."I'm terribly sorry. I'm afraid he's ever so stubborn about these things." Hemanaged to throw a disparaging yet loving tone into his voice, as he tilted his headtoward his small associate.
　　Bib gestured for them to follow. "Nudd chaa." He walked back into thedarkness, the droids following close behind, the three Gamorrean guards lumberingalong at the rear.
　　As See-Threepio descended into the belly of the shadow, he muttered quietly tothe silent R2 unit, "Artoo, I have a bad feeling about this."
　　See-Threepio and Artoo-Detoo stood at the entrance of the throne room, lookingin. "We're doomed," whimpered Threepio, wishing for the thousandth time that hecould close his eyes.
　　The room was filled, wall to cavernous wall, with the animate dregs of theuniverse. Grotesque creatures from the lowest star systems, drunk on spiced liquorand their own fetid vapors. Gamorreans, twisted humans, jawas-all reveling inbase pleasures, or raucously comparing mean feats. And at the front of the room,reclining on a dais that overlooked the debauchery, was Jabba the Hutt.
　　His head was three times human size, perhaps four. His eyes were yellow,reptilian-his skin was like a snake's, as well, except covered with a fine layer ofgrease. He had no neck, but only a series of chins that expanded finally into a greatbloated body, engorged to bursting with stolen morsels. Stunted, almost uselessarms sprouted from his upper torso, the sticky fingers of his left hand languidlywrapped around the smoking-end of his water-pipe. He had no hair-it had fallenout from a combination of diseases. He had no legs-his trunk simply taperedgradually to a long, plump snake-tail that stretched along the length of the platformlike a tube of yeasty dough. His lipless mouth was wide, almost ear to ear, and hedrooled continuously. He was quite thoroughly disgusting.
　　Chained to him, chained at the neck, was a sad, pretty dancing-girl, a member ofFortuna's species, with two dry, shapely tentacles sprouting from the back of her head,hanging suggestively down her bare, muscled back. Her name was Oola. Lookingforlorn, she sat as far away as her chain would allow, at the other end of the dais.
　　And sitting near Jabba's belly was a small monkeylike reptile named SalaciousCrumb, who caught all the food and ooze that spilled out of Jabba's hands or mouthand ate it with a nauseating cackle.
　　Shafts of light from above partially illuminated the drunken courtiers as BibFortuna crossed the floor to the dais. The room was composed of an endless seriesof alcoves within alcoves, so that much of what went on was, in any case, visible onlyas shadow and movement. When Fortuna reached the throne, he delicately leanedforward and whispered into the slobbering monarch's ear. Jabba's eyes becameslits´then with a maniacal laugh he motioned for the two terrified droids to bebrought in.
　　"Bo shuda," wheezed the Hutt, and lapsed into a fit of coughing. Although heunderstood several languages, as a point of honor he only spoke Huttese. His onlysuch point.
　　The quaking robots scooted forward to stand before the repulsive ruler, thoughhe grossly violated their most deeply programmed sensibilities. "The message,Artoo, the message," Threepio urged.
　　Artoo whistled once, and a beam of light projected from his domed head,creating a hologram of Luke Skywalker that stood before them on the floor. Quicklythe image grew to over ten feet tall, until the young Jedi warrior towered over theassembled throng. Al at once the room grew quiet, as Luke's giant presence madeitself felt.
　　"Greetings, Exalted One," the hologram said to Jabba. "Allow me to introducemyself. I am Luke Skywalker, Jedi Knight and friend of Captain Solo. I seek anaudience with Your Greatness, to bargain for his life." At this, the entire room burstinto laughter which Jabba instantly stopped with a hand motion. Luke didn't pauselong. "I know that you are powerful, mighty Jabba, and that your anger with Solomust be equally powerful. But I'm sure we can work out an arrangement which willbe mutually beneficial. As a token of my good will, I present to you a gift-thesetwo droids."
　　Threepio jumped back as if stung. "What! What did he said?"
　　Luke continued, "´Both are hardworking and will serve you will." With that,the hologram disappeared.
　　Threepio wagged his head in despair. "Oh, no, this can't be. Artoo, you musthave played the wrong message." Jabba laughed and drooled.
　　Bib spoke in Huttese. "Bargain rather than fight? He is no Jedi."
　　Jabba nodded in agreement. Still grinning, he rasped at Threepio, "There willbe no bargain. I have no intention of giving up my favorite decoration." With ahideous chuckle he looked toward the dimly lit alcove beside the throne; there,hanging flat against the wall, was the carbonized form of Han Solo, his face andhands emerging out of the cold hard slab, like a statue reaching from a sea of stone.
　　Artoo and Threepio marched dismally through the dank passageway at theprodding of a Gamorrean guard. Dungeon cells lined both walls. The unspeakablecries of anguish that emanated from within as the droids passed echoed off the stoneand down the endless catacombs. Periodically a hand or claw or tentacle wouldreach through the bars of a door to grab at the hapless robots.
　　Artoo beeped pitifully. Threepio only shook his head. "What could havepossibly come over Master Luke? Was it something I did? He never expressed anyunhappiness with my work´"
　　They approached a door at the end of the corridor. It slid open automatically,and the Gamorrean shoved them forward. Inside, their ears were assaulted bydeafening machine sounds-wheels creaking, piston-heads slamming, water-hammers,engine hums-and a continuously shifting haze of steam made visibility short. Thiswas either the boiler room, or programmed hell.
　　An agonized electronic scream, like the sound of stripping gears, drew theirattention to the corner of the room. From out of the mist walked EV-9D9, a thinhumanlike robot with some disturbingly human appetites. In the dimness behindNinedenine, Threepio could see the legs being pulled off a droid on a torture rack,while a second droid, hanging upside down, was having red-hot irons applied to itsfeet; it had emitted the electronic scream Threepio heard a few moments earlier, as thesensor circuits in its metal skin melted in agony. Threepio cringed at the sound, hisown wiring sympathetically crackling with static electricity.
　　Ninedenine stopped in front of Threepio, raising her pincer hands expansively."Ah, new acquisitions," she said with great satisfaction. "I am Eve-Ninedenine,Chief of Cyborg Operations. You're a protocol droid, aren't you?"
　　"I am See-Threepio, human-cyborg re-"
　　"Yes or no will do," Ninedenine said icily.
　　"Well, yes," Threepio replied. This robot was going to be trouble, that muchwas obvious-one of those droids who always had to prove she wasmore-droid-than-thou.
　　"How many languages do you speak?" Ninedenine continued.
　　Well, two can play that game, thought Threepio. He ran his most dignified,official introductory tape. "I am fluent in over six million forms of communication,and can-"
　　"Splendid!" Ninedenine interrupted gleefully. "We have been without aninterpreter since the master got angry with something our last protocol droid said anddisintegrated him."
　　"Disintegrated!" Threepio wailed. Any semblance of protocol left him.
　　Ninedenine spoke to a pig guard who suddenly appeared. "This one will bequite useful. Fit him with a restraining bolt, then take him back up to the mainaudience chamber."
　　The guard grunted and roughly shoved Threepio toward the door.
　　"Artoo, don't leave me!" Threepio called out, but the guard grabbed him andpulled him away; and he was gone.
　　Artoo let out a long; plaintive cry as Threepio was removed. Then he turned toNinedenine and beeped in outrage, and at length.
　　Ninedenine laughed. "You're a feisty little one, but you'll soon learn somerespect. I have need for you on the master's Sail Barge. Several of our astrodroidshave been disappearing recently-stolen for spare parts, most likely. I think you'llfill in nicely."
　　The droid on the torture rack emitted a high-frequency wail, then sparked brieflyand was silent.
　　The court of Jabba the Hutt roiled in malignant ecstasy. Oola, the beautifulcreature chained to Jabba, danced in the center of the floor, as the inebriated monsterscheered and heckled. Threepio hovered warily near the back of the throne, trying tokeep the lowest profile possible. Periodically he had to duck to avoid a fruit hurledin his direction or to sidestep a rolling body. Mostly, he just stayed low. What elsewas a protocol droid to do, in a place of so little protocol?
　　Jabba leered through the smoke of his hooka and beckoned the creature Oola tocome sit beside him. She stopped dancing instantly, a fearful look in her eye, andbacked up, shaking her head. Apparently she had suffered such invitations before.
　　Jabba became angry. He pointed unmistakably to a spot beside him on the dais."Da eitha!" he growled.
　　Oola shook her head more violently, her face a mask of terror. "Na chubanegatorie. Na! Na! Natoota´"
　　Jabba became livid. Furiously he motioned to Oola. "Boscka!"
　　Jabba pushed a button as he released Oola's chain. Before she could flee, agrating trap door in the floor dropped open, and she tumbled into the pit below. Thedoor snapped shut instantly. A moment of silence, followed by a low, rumbling roar,followed by a terrified shriek was followed once more by silence.
　　Jabba laughed until he slobbered. A dozen revelers hurried over to peerthrough the grate, to observe the demise of the nubile dancer.
　　Threepio shrank even lower and looked for support to the carbonite form of HanSolo, suspended in bas relief above the floor. Now there was a human without asense of protocol, thought Threepio wistfully.
　　His reverie was interrupted by an unnatural quiet that suddenly fell over theroom. He looked up to see Bib Fortuna making his way through the crowd,accompanied by two Gamorrean guards, and followed by a fierce-lookingcloaked-and-helmeted bounty hunter who led his captive prize on a leash: Chewbacca,the Wookiee.
　　Threepio gasped, stunned. "Oh, no! Chewbacca!" The future was lookingvery bleak indeed."
　　Bib muttered a few words into Jabba's ear, pointing to the bounty hunter and hiscaptive. Jabba listened intently. The bounty hunter was humanoid, small and mean:a belt of cartridges was slung across his jerkin and an eye-slit in his helmet-mask gavethe impression of his being able to see through things. He bowed low, then spoke influent Ubese. "Greeting, Majestic One. I am Boushh." It was a metalliclanguage, well-adapted to the rarefied atmosphere of the home planet from which thisnomadic species arose.
　　Jabba answered in the same tongue, though his Ubese was stilted and slow. "Atlast someone has brought me the mighty Chewbacca´" He tried to continue, butstuttered on the word he wanted. With a roaring laugh, he turned toward Threepio."Where's my talkdroid?" he boomed, motioning Threepio to come closer.Reluctantly, the courtly robot obeyed.
　　Jabba ordered him congenially. "Welcome our mercenary friend and ask hisprice for the Wookiee."
　　Threepio translated the message to the bounty hunter. Boushh listened carefully,simultaneously studying the feral creatures around the room, possible exits, possiblehostages, vulnerable points. He particularly noticed Boba Fett-standing near thedoor-the steel-masked mercenary who had caught Han Solo.
　　Boushh assessed this all in a moment's moment, then spoke evenly in his nativetongue to Threepio. "I will take fifty thousand, no less."
　　Threepio quietly translated for Jabba, who immediately became enraged andknocked the golden droid off the raised throne with a sweep of his massive tail.Threepio clattered in a heap on the floor, where he rested momentarily, uncertain ofthe correct protocol in this situation.
　　Jabba raved on in guttural Huttese, Boushh shifted his weapon to a more usableposition. Threepio sighed, struggled back onto the throne, composed himself, andtranslated for Boushh-loosely-what Jabba was saying.
　　"Twenty-five thousand is all he'll pay´" Threepio instructed.
　　Jabba motioned his pig guards to take Chewbacca, as two jawas covered Boushh.Boba Fett, also raised his weapon. Jabba added, to Threepio's translation: "Twentyfive thousand, plus his life."
　　Threepio translated. The room was silent, tense, uncertain. Finally Boushhspoke, softly, to Threepio.
　　"Tell that swollen garbage bag he'll have to do better than that, or they'll bepicking his smelly hide out of every crack in this room. I'm holding a thermaldetonator."
　　Threepio suddenly focused on the small silver ball Boushh held partiallyconcealed in his left hand. It could be heard humming a quiet, ominous hum.Threepio looked nervously at Jabba, then back at Boushh.
　　Jabba barked at the droid. "Well? What did he say?"
　　Threepio cleared his throat. "Your Grandness, he, uh´He-"
　　"Out with it, droid!" Jabba roared.
　　"Oh, dear," Threepio fretted. He inwardly prepared himself for the worst, thenspoke to Jabba in flawless Huttese. "Boushh respectfully disagrees with YourExaltedness, and begs you to reconsider the amount´or he will release the thermaldetonator he is holding."
　　Instantly a disturbed murmuring circled in the room. Everyone backed upseveral feet, as if that would help. Jabba stared at the ball clenched in the bountyhunter's hand. It was beginning to glow. Another tense hush came over theonlookers.
　　Jabba stared malevolently at the bounty hunter for several long seconds. Then,slowly, a satisfied grin crept over his vast, ugly mouth. From the bilious pit of hisbelly, a laugh rose like gas in a mire. "This bounty hunter is my kind of scum.Fearless and inventive. Tell him thirty-five, no more-and warn him not to press hisluck."
　　Threepio felt greatly relieved by this turn of events. He translated for Boushh.Everyone studied the bounty hunter closely for his reaction; guns were readied.
　　Then Boushh released a switch on the thermal detonator, and it went dead."Zeebuss," he nodded.
　　"He agrees," Threepio said to Jabba.
　　The crowd cheered; Jabba relaxed. "Come, my friend, join our celebration. Imay find other work for you." Threepio translated, as the party resumed in thedepraved revelry.
　　Chewbacca growled under his breath, as he was led away by the Gamorreans.He might have cracked their heads just for being so ugly, or to remind everyonepresent what a Wookiee was made of-but near the door he spotted a familiar face.Hidden behind a half-mask of pit-boar teeth was a human in the uniform of a skiffguard-Lando Calrissian. Chewbacca gave no sign of recognition; nor did he resistthe guard who now escorted him from the room.
　　Lando had managed to infiltrate this nest of maggots month's earlier to see if itwas possible to free Solo from Jabba's imprisonment. He'd done this for severalreasons.
　　First, because he felt (correctly) that it was his fault Han was in this predicament,and he wanted to make amends-provided, of course, he could do so without gettinghurt. Blending in here, like just one of the pirates, was no problem for Lando,though-mistaken identity was a way of life with him.
　　Second, he wanted to join forces with Han's buddies at the top of the RebelAlliance. They were out to beat the Empire, and he wanted nothing more in his lifenow than to do just that. The Imperial police had moved in on his action once toooften; so this was a grudge match, now. Besides, Lando liked being part of Solo'scrowd, since they seemed to be right up at the business end of all the action againstthe Empire.
　　Third, Princess Leia had asked him to help, and he just never could refuse aprincess asking for help. Besides, you never knew how she might thank you someday.
　　Finally, Lando would have bet anything that Han simply could not be rescuedfrom this place-and Lando just plain couldn't resist a bet.
　　So he spent his days watching a lot. Watching and calculating. That's what hedid now, as Chewie was led away-he watched, and then he faded into the stonework.
　　The band started playing, led by a blue, flop-eared jizz-wailer named Max Rebo.Dancers flooded the floor. The courtiers hooted, and brewed their brains a bit more.
　　Boushh leaned against a column, surveying the scene. His gaze swept coollyover the court, taking in the dancers, the smokers, the rollers, the gamblers´until itcame to rest squarely on an equally unflappable stare from across the room. BobaFett was watching him.
　　Boushh shifted slightly, posturing with his weapon cradled like a loving child.Boba Fett remained motionless, an arrogant sneer all but visible behind his ominousmask.
　　Pig guards led Chewbacca though the unlit dungeon corridor. A tentacle coiledout one of the doors to touch the brooding Wookiee.
　　"Rheeaaahhr!" he screamed, and the tentacle shot back into its cell.
　　The next door was open. Before Chewie fully realized what was happening, hewas hurled forcefully into the cell by all the guards. The door slammed shut, lockinghim in darkness.
　　He raised his head and let out a long, pitiful howl that carried through the entiremountain of iron and sand up to the infinitely patient sky.
　　The throne room was quiet, dark, and empty as right filled its littered corners.Blood, wine, and saliva stained the floor, shreds of tattered clothing hung from thefixtures, unconscious bodies curled under broken furniture. The party was over.
　　A dark figure moved silently among the shadows, pausing behind a column here,a statue there. He made his way stealthily along the perimeter of the room, steppingonce over a snoring Yak Face. He never made a sound. This was Boushh, thebounty hunter.
　　He reached the curtained alcove beside which the slab that was Han Solo hungsuspended by a force field on the wall. Boushh looked around furtively, then flippeda switch near the side of the carbonite coffin. The humming of the force field wounddown, and the heavy monolith slowly lowered to the floor.
　　Boushh stepped up and studied the frozen face of the space pirate. He touchedSolo's carbonized cheek, curiously, as if it were a rare, precious stone. Cold andhard as diamond.
　　For a few seconds he examined the controls at the side of the slab, then activateda series of switches. Finally, after one last, hesitant, glance at the living statue beforehim, he slid the decarbonization lever into place.
　　The casing began to emit in a high-pitched sound. Anxiously Boushh peered allaround again, making certain no one heard. Slowly, the hard shell that was coveringthe contours of Solo's face started to melt away. Soon, the coating was gone fromthe entire front of Solo's body, freeing his upraised hands-so long frozen inprotest-to fall slackly to his sides. His face relaxed into what looked like nothingso much as a death-mask. Boushh extracted the lifeless body from its casing andlowered it gently to the floor.
　　He leaned his gruesome helmet close to Solo's face, listening closely for signs oflife. No breath. No pulse. With a start, Han's eyes suddenly snapped open, andhe began to cough. Boushh steadied him, tried to quiet him-there were still guardswho might hear.
　　"Quiet!" he whispered. "Just relax."
　　Han squinted up at the dim form above him. "I can't see´What's happening?"He was, understandably, disoriented, after having been in suspended animation for sixof this desert planet's months-a period that was, to him, timeless. It had been agrim sensation-as if for an eternity he'd been trying to draw breath, to move, toscream, every moment in conscious, painful asphyxiation-and now suddenly he wasdumped into a loud, black, cold pit.
　　His senses assaulted him all at once. The air bit at his skin with a thousand icyteeth; the opacity of his sight was impenetrable; wind seemed to rush around his earsat hurricane volumes; he couldn't feel which way was up; the myriad smells filling hisnose made him nauseous, he couldn't stop salivating, all his bones hurt-and thencame the visions.
　　Visions from his childhood, from his last breakfast, from twenty-sevenpiracies´as if all the images and memories of his life had been crammed into aballoon, and the balloon popped and they all came bursting out now, randomly, in asingle moment. It was nearly overwhelming, it was sensory overload; or moreprecisely, memory overload. Men had gone mad, in these first minutes followingdecarbonization, hopelessly, utterly mad-unable ever again to reorganize theten-billion kind of coherent, selective order.
　　Solo wasn't that susceptible. He rode the surge of this tide of impressions untilit settled down to a churning backwash, submerging the bulk of his memories, leavingonly the most recent flotsam to foam on the surface: his betrayal by Lando Calrissian,who he'd once called friend; his ailing ship; his last view of Leia; his capture by BobaFett, the iron-masked bounty hunter who´
　　Where was he now? What had happened? His last image was of Boba Fettwatching him turn into carbonite. Was this Fett again now, come to thaw him formore abuse? The air roared in his ears, his breathing felt irregular, unnatural. Hebatted his hand in front of his face.
　　Boushh tried to reassure him. "You're free of the carbonite and havehibernation sickness. Your eyesight will return in time. Come, we must hurry ifwe're to leave this place."
　　Reflexively Han grabbed the bounty hunter, felt at the grated face-mask, thendrew back. "I am not going anywhere-I don't even know where I am." He begansweating profusely as his heart once again churned blood, and his mind groped foranswers. "Who are you, anyway?" he demanded suspiciously. Perhaps it was Fettafter all.
　　The bounty hunter reached up and pulled the helmet away from his headrevealing, underneath, the beautiful face of Princess Leia.
　　"One who loves you," she whispered, taking his face tenderly in her still glovedhands and kissing him long on the lips.

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
    

Return of The Jedi
II

　　Han strained to see her, though he had the eyes of a newborn. "Leia! Where arewe?"
　　"Jabba's palace. I've got to get you out of here quick."
　　He sat up shakily. "Everything's a blur´I'm not going to be much help´"
　　She looked at him a long moment, her blinded love-she'd traveled light-yearsto find him, risked her life, lost hard-won time needed sorely by the Rebellion, timeshe couldn't really afford to throw away on personal quests and private desires´butshe loved him.
　　Tears filled her eyes. "We'll make it," she whispered.
　　Impulsively, she embraced him and kissed him again. He, too, was floodedwith emotion all at once-back from the dead, the beautiful princess filling his arms,snatching him from the teeth of the void. He felt overwhelmed. Unable to move,even to speak, he held her tightly, his blind eyes closed fast against all the sordidrealities that would come rushing in soon enough.
　　Sooner than that, as it happened. A repulsive squishing sound suddenly becameall too obvious behind them. Han opened his eyes, but could still see nothing. Leialooked up to the alcove beyond, and her gaze turned to an expression of horror. Forthe curtain had been drawn away, and the entire area, floor to ceiling, was composedof a gallery of the most disgusting miscreants of Jabba's court-gawking, salivating,wheezing.
　　Leia's hand shot up to her mouth.
　　"What is it?" Han pressed her. Something obviously was terribly wrong. Hestared into his own blackness.
　　An obscene cackle rose from the other side of the alcove. A Huttese cackle.
　　Han held his head, closed his eyes again, as if to keep away the inevitable for justone more moment. "I know that laugh."
　　The curtain on the far side was suddenly drawn open. There sat Jabba, Ishi Tib,Bib, Boba, and several guards. They all laughed, kept laughing, laughed to punish.
　　"My, my, what a touching sight," Jabba purred. "Han, my boy, your taste incompanions has improved, even if your luck has not."
　　Even blind, Solo could slide into smooth talk easier than a spice-eater. "Listen,Jabba, I was on my way back to pay you when I got a little side-tracked. Now Iknow we've had our differences, but I'm sure we can work this out´"
　　This time Jabba genuinely chuckled. "It's too late for that, Solo. You mayhave been the best smuggler in the business, but now you're Bantha fodder." He cutshort his smile and gestured to his guards. "Take him."
　　Guards grabbed Leia and Han. They dragged the Corellian pirate off, whileLeia continued struggling where she was.
　　"I will decide how to kill him later," Jabba muttered.
　　"I'll pay you triple," Solo called out. "Jabba, you're throwing away a fortune.Don't be fool." Then he was gone.
　　From the rank of guards, Lando quickly moved forward, took hold of Leia, andattempted to lead her away.
　　Jabba stopped them. "Wait! Bring her to me."
　　Lando and Leia halted in mid-stride. Lando looked tense, uncertain what to do.It wasn't quite time to move yet. The odds still weren't just right. He knew he wasthe ace-in-the-hole, and an ace-in-the-hole was something you had to know how toplay to win.
　　"I'll be all right," Leia whispered.
　　"I'm not so sure," he replied. But the moment was pasted; there was nothingelse to be done now. He and Ishi Tib, the Birdlizard, dragged the young princess toJabba.
　　Threepio, who'd been watching everything from his place behind Jabba, couldwatch no more. He turned away in dread.
　　Leia, on the other hand, stood tall before the loathsome monarch. Her anger ranhigh. With all the galaxy by this petty scumdealer was more outrageous than shecould tolerate. Still, she kept her voice calm; for she was, in the end, a princess."We have powerful friends Jabba. You will soon regret this´"
　　"I'm sure, I'm sure," the old gangster rumbled with glee, "but in the meantime, Iwill thoroughly enjoy the pleasure of your company."
　　He pulled her eagerly to him until their faces were mere inches apart, her bellypressed to his oily snake skin. She thought about killing him outright, then and there.But she held her ire in check, since the rest of these vermin might have killed herbefore she could escape with Han. Better odds were sure to come later. So sheswallowed hard and, for the time being, put up with this slimepot as best she could.
　　Threepio peeked out momentarily, then immediately withdrew again. "Oh, no,I can't watch."
　　Foul beast that he was, Jabba poked his fat, dripping tongue out to the princess,and slopped a beastly kiss squarely on her mouth.
　　Han was thrown roughly into the dungeon cell; the door crashed shut behind him.He fell to the floor in the darkness, then picked himself up and sat against the wall.After a few moments of pounding the ground with his fist, he quieted down and triedto organize his thoughts.
　　Darkness. Well, blast it, blind is blind. No use wishing for moondew on ameteorite. Only it was so frustrating, coming out of deep-freeze like that, saved bythe one person who´
　　Leia! The star captain's stomach dropped at the thought of what must behappening to her now. If only he knew where he was. Tentatively he knocked onthe wall behind him. Solid rock.
　　What could he do? Bargain, maybe. But what did he have to bargain with?Dumb question, he thought-when did I ever have to have something before I couldbargain with it?
　　What, though? Money? Jabba had more than he could ever count. Pleasures?Nothing could give Jabba more pleasure than to defile the princess and kill Solo. No,things were bad-in fact, it didn't look like they could get much worse.
　　Then he heard the growl. A low, formidable snarl from out of the denseblackness at the far corner of the cell, the growl of a large and angry beast.
　　The hair on Solo's arms stood on end. Quickly he rose, his back to the wall."Looks like I've got company," he muttered.
　　The wild creature bellowed out an insane "Groawwwwr!" and raced straight atSolo, grabbing him ferociously around the chest, lifting him several feet into the air,squeezing off his breathing.
　　Han was totally motionless for several long seconds-he couldn't believe hisears. "Chewie, is that you!?"
　　The giant Wookiee barked with joy.
　　For the second time in an hour, Solo was overcome with happiness; but this wasan entirely different matter. "All right, all right, wait a second, you're crushing me."
　　Chewbacca put his friend down. Han reached up and scratched his partner'schest; Chewie cooed like a pup.
　　"Okay, what's going on around here, anyway?" Han was instantly back on track.Here was unbelievably good fortune-here was someone he could make a plan with.And not only someone, but his most loyal friend in the galaxy.
　　Chewie filled him in at length. "Arh arhaghh shpahrgh rahr aurowwwrahrahgrop rahp rah."
　　"Lando's plan? What is he doing here?"
　　Chewie barked extensively.
　　Han shook his head. "Is Luke crazy? Why'd you listen to him? That kidcan't even take care of himself, let alone rescue anyone."
　　"Rowr ahragh awf ahraroww rowh rohngr grgrff rf rf."
　　"A Jedi Knight? Come on. I'm out of it for a little while and everybody getsdelusions´"
　　Chewbacca growled insistently.
　　Han nodded dubiously in the blackness. "I'll believe it when I see it-" hecommented, walking stoutly into the wall. "If you'll excuse the expression."
　　The iron main gate of Jabba's palace scraped open harshly, oiled only with sandand time. Standing outside in the dusty gale, staring into the black cavernousentranceway, was Luke Skywalker.
　　He was clad in the robe of the Jedi Knight-a cassock, really-but bore neithergun nor lightsaber. He stood loosely, without bravado, taking a measure of the placebefore entering. He was a man now. Wiser, like a man-older more from loss thanfrom years. Loss of illusions, loss of dependency. Loss of friends, to war. Lossof sleep, to stress. Loss of laughter. Loss of his hand.
　　But of all his losses, the greatest was that which came from knowledge, and fromthe deep recognition that he could never un-know what he knew. So many things hewished he'd never learned. He had aged with the weight of this knowledge.
　　Knowledge brought benefits, of course. He was less impulsive now.Manhood had given him perspective, a framework in which to fit the events of hislife-that is, a lattice of spatial and time coordinates spanning his existence, backearliest memories, ahead to a hundred alternative futures. A lattice of depths, andconundrums, and interstices, through which Luke could peer at any new event in hislife, peer at it with perspective. A lattice of shadows and corners, rolling back to thevanishing point on the horizon of Luke's mind. And all these shadow boxes that lentsuch perspective to things´well, this lattice gave his life a certain darkness.
　　Nothing of substance, of course-and in any case, some would have said thisshading gave a depth to his personality, where before it had been thin, withoutdimension-though such a suggestion probably would have come from jaded critics,reflecting a jaded time. Nonetheless, there was a certain darkness, now.
　　There were other advantages to knowledge: rationality, etiquette, choice.Choice, of them all, was a true double-edged sword; but it did have its advantages.
　　Furthermore he was skilled in the craft of the Jedi now, where before he'd beenmerely precocious.
　　He was more aware now.
　　These were all desirable attributes, to be sure; and Luke knew as well as anyonethat all things alive must grow. Still, it carried a certain sadness, the sum of all thisknowledge. A certain sense of regret. But who could afford to be a boy in timessuch as these?
　　Resolutely, Luke strode into the arching hallway.
　　Almost immediately two Gamorreans stepped up, blocking his path. One spokein voice that did not invite debate. "No chuba!"
　　Luke raised his hand and pointed at the guards. Before either could draw aweapon, they were both clutching their own throats, choking, gasping. They fell totheir knees.
　　Luke lowered his hand and walked on. The guards, suddenly able to breatheagain, slumped to the sand-drifted steps. They didn't follow.
　　Around the next corner Luke was met by Bib Fortuna. Fortuna began speakingas he approached the young Jedi, but Luke never broke stride, so Bib had to reversehis direction in mid-sentence and hurry along with Skywalker in order to carry onconversation.
　　"You must be the one called Skywalker. His Excellency will not see you."
　　"I will speak to Jabba, now," Luke spoke evenly, never slowing. They passedseveral more guards at the next crossing, who fell in behind them.
　　"The great Jabba is asleep," Bib explained. "He has instructed me to tell youthere will be no bargains-"
　　Luke stopped suddenly, and stared at Bib. He locked eyes with the major-domo,raised his hand slightly, took a minutely inward turn. "You will take me to Jabba,now."
　　Bib paused, tilted his head a fraction. What were his instructions? Oh, yes,now he remembered. "I will take you to Jabba now."
　　He turned and walked down the twisting corridor that led to the throne chamber.Luke followed him into the gloom.
　　"You serve your master well," he whispered in Bib's ear.
　　"I serve my master well," Bib nodded with conviction.
　　"You are sure to be rewarded," Luke added.
　　Bib smiled smugly. "I am sure to be rewarded."
　　As Luke and Bib entered Jabba's court, the level of tumult dropped precipitouslyas if Luke's presence had a cooling effect. Everyone felt a change.
　　The lieutenant and the Jedi Knight approached the throne. Luke saw Leiaseated there, now, by Jabba's belly. She was chained at the neck and dressed in theskimpy costume of a dancing girl. He could feel her pain immediately, from acrossthe room-but he said nothing, didn't even look at her, shut her anguish completelyout of his mind. For he needed to focus his attention entirely on Jabba.
　　Leia, for her part, sensed this at once. She closed her mind to Luke, to keepherself from distracting him; yet at the same time she kept it open, ready to receiveany sliver of information she might need to act. She felt charged with possibilities.
　　Threepio peeked out from behind the throne as Bib walked up. For the firsttime in many days, he scanned his hope program. "Ah! At last Master Luke'scome to take me away from all this," he beamed.
　　Bib stood proudly before Jabba. "Master, I present Luke Skywalker, JediKnight."
　　"I told you not to admit him," the gangster-slug growled in Huttese.
　　"I must be allowed to speak," Luke spoke quietly, though his words were heardthroughout the hall.
　　"He must be allowed to speak," Bob concurred thoughtfully.
　　Jabba, furious, bashed Bib across the face and sent his reeling to the floor."You weak-minded fool! He's using an old Jedi mind trick!"
　　Luke let all the rest of the motley horde that surrounded him melt into therecesses of his consciousness, to let Jabba fill his mind totally. "You will bringCaptain Solo and the Wookiee to me."
　　Jabba smiled grimly. "Your mind powers will not work on me, boy. I am notaffected by your human thought pattern." Then, as an afterthought: "I was killingyour kind when being a Jedi meant something."
　　Luke altered his stance somewhat, internally and externally. "Nevertheless, Iam taking Captain Solo and his friends. You can either profit from this´or bedestroyed. It's your choice, but I warn you not to underestimate my powers." Hespoke in his own language, which Jabba well understood.
　　Jabba laughed the laugh of a lion cautioned by a mouse.
　　Threepio, who had been observing this interplay intently, leaned forward towhisper to Luke: "Master, you're standing-" A guard abruptly restrained theconcerned droid, though, and pulled him back to his place.
　　Jabba cut short his laugh with a scowl. "There will be no bargain, young Jedi.I shall enjoy watching you die."
　　Luke raised his hand. A pistol jumped out of the holster of a nearby guard andlanded snugly in the Jedi's palm. Luke pointed the weapon at Jabba.
　　Jabba spat. "Boscka!"
　　The floor suddenly dropped away, sending Luke and his guard crashing into thepit below. The trap door immediately closed again. All the beasts of the courtrushed to the floor-grating and looked down.
　　"Luke!" yelled Leia. She felt part of her self torn away, pulled down into thepit with him. She started forward, but was held in check by the manacle around herthroat. Raucous laughter crowded in from everywhere at once, set her on edge.She poised to flee.
　　A human guard touched her shoulder. She looked. It was Lando.Imperceptibly, he shook his head No. Imperceptibly, her muscles relaxed. Thiswasn't the right moment, he knew-but it was the right hand. All the cards werehere, now-Luke, Han, Leia, Chewbacca´and old Wild Card Lando. He just didn'twant Leia revealing the hand before all the bets were out. The stakes were just toohigh.
　　In the pit below, Luke picked himself up off the floor. He found he was now ina large cavelike dungeon, the walls formed of craggy boulders pocked with lightlesscrevices. The half-chewed bones of countless animals were strewn over the floor,smelling of decayed flesh and twisted fear.
　　Twenty-five feet above him, in the ceiling, he saw the iron grating through whichJabba's repugnant courtiers peered.
　　The guard beside him suddenly began to scream uncontrollably, as a door in theside of the cave slowly rumbled open. With infinite calm, Luke surveyed hissurroundings as he removed his long robe down to his Jedi tunic, to give him morefreedom of movement. He backed quickly to the wall and crouched there, watching.
　　Out of the side passage emerged the giant Rancor. The size of an elephant, itwas somehow reptilian, somehow as unformed as a nightmare. Its huge screechingmouth was asymmetrical in its head, its fangs and claws set all out of proportion. Itwas clearly a mutant, and wild as all unreason.
　　The guard picked up the pistol from the dirt where it had fallen and began firinglaser bursts at the hideous monster. This only made the beast angrier. It lumberedtoward the guard.
　　The guard kept firing. Ignoring the laser blasts, the beast grabbed the hystericalguard, popped him into its slavering jaws, and swallowed him in a gulp. Theaudience above cheered, laughed, and threw coins.
　　The monster then turned and started for Luke. But the Jedi Knight leaped eightmeters straight up and grabbed onto the overhead grate. The crowd began to boo.Hand over hand, Luke traversed the grating toward the corner of the cave, strugglingto maintain his grip as the audience jeered his efforts. One hand slipped on the oilygrid, and he dangled precariously over the baying mutant.
　　Two jawas ran across the top of the grate. They mashed Luke's fingers withtheir rifle butts; once again, the crowd roared its approval.
　　The Rancor pawed at Luke from below, but the Jedi dangled just out of reach.Suddenly Luke released his hold and dropped directly onto the eye of the howlingmonster; he then tumbled to the floor.
　　The Rancor screamed in pain and stumbled, swatting its own face to knock awaythe agony. It ran in circles a few times, then spotted Luke again and came at him.Luke stooped down to pick up the long bone of an earlier victim. He brandished itbefore him. The gallery above thought this was hilarious and hooted in delight.
　　The monster grabbed Luke and brought him up to its salivating mouth. At thelast moment, though, Luke wedged the bone deep in the Rancor's mouth and jumpedto the floor as the beast began to gag. The Rancor bellowed and flailed about,running headlong into a wall. Several rocks were dislodged, starting an avalanchethat nearly buried Luke, as he crouched deep in a crevice near the floor. The crowdclapped in unison.
　　Luke tried to clear his mind. Fear is a great cloud, Ben used to tell him. Itmakes the cold colder and the dark darker; but let it rise and it will dissolve. SoLuke let it rise past the clamor of the beast above him, and examined ways he mightturn the sad creature's rantings on itself.
　　It was not an evil beast, that much was clear. Had it been purely malicious, itswickedness could easily have been turned on itself-for pure evil, Ben had said, wasalways self-destructive in the end. But this monster wasn't bad-merely dumb andmistreated. Hungry and in pain, it lashed out at whatever came near. For Luke tohave looked on that as evil would only have been a projection of Luke's own darkeraspects-it would have been false, and it certainly wouldn't have helped him out ofthis situation.
　　No, he was going to have to keep his mind clear-that was all-and just outwitthe savage brute, to put it out of its misery.
　　Most preferable would have been to set it loose in Jabba's court, but that seemedunlikely. He considered, next, giving the creature the means to do itself in-to endits own pain. Unfortunately, the creature was far too angered to comprehend thesolace of the void. Luke finally began studying the specific contours of the cave, totry to come up with a specific plan.
　　The Rancor, meanwhile, had knocked the bone from its mouth and, enraged, wasscrabbling through the rubble of fallen rocks, searching for Luke. Luke, though hisvision was partially obscured by the pile that still sheltered him, could see now pastthe monster, to a holding cave beyond-and beyond that, to a utility door. If only hecould get to it.
　　The Rancor knocked away a boulder and spotted Luke recoiling in the crevice.Voraciously, it reached in to pluck the boy out. Luke grabbed a large rock andsmashed it down on the creature's finger as hard as he could. As the Rancor jumped,howling in pain once more, Luke ran for the holding cave.
　　He reached the doorway and ran in. Before him, a heavy barred gate blockedthe way. Beyond this gate the Rancor's two keepers sat eating dinner. They lookedup as Luke entered, then stood and walked toward the gate.
　　Luke turned around to see the monster coming angrily after him. He turnedback to the gate and tried to open it. The keepers poked at him with theirtwo-pronged spears, jabbed at him through the bars, laughing and chewing their food,as the Rancor drew closer to the young Jedi.
　　Luke backed against the side wall, as the Rancor reached in the room for him.Suddenly he saw the restraining-door control panel halfway up the opposite wall.The Rancor began to enter the holding room, closing for the kill, when all at onceLuke picked up a skull off the floor and hurled it at the panel.
　　The panel exploded in a shower of sparks, and the giant iron overhead restrainingdoor came crashing down on the Rancor's head, crushing it like an axe smashingthrough a ripe watermelon.
　　Those in the audience above gasped as one, then were silent. They were alltruly stunned at this bizarre turn of events. They all looked to Jabba, who wasapoplectic with rage. Never had he felt such fury. Leia tried to hide her delight,but was unable to keep from smiling, and this increased Jabba's anger even further.Harshly he snapped at his guards: "Get him out of there. Bring me Solo and theWookiee. They will all suffer for this outrage."
　　In the pit below, Luke stood calmly as several of Jabba's henchmen ran in,clapped him in bonds, and ushered him out.
　　The Rancor keeper wept openly and threw himself down on the body of his deadpet. Life would be a lonely proposition for him from that day.
　　Han and Chewie were led before the steaming Jabba. Han still squinted andstumbled every few feet. Threepio stood behind the Hutt, unbearable apprehensive.Jabba kept Leia on a short tether, stroking her hair to try to calm himself. A constantmurmuring filled the room, as the rabble speculated on what was going to happen towhom.
　　With a flurry, several guards-including Lando Calrissian-dragged Luke inacross the room. To give them passage, the courtiers parted like an unruly sea.When Luke, too, was standing before the throne, he nudged Solo with a smile."Good to see you again, old buddy."
　　Solo's face lit up. There seemed to be no end to the number of friends he keptbumping into. "Luke! Are you in this mess now, too?"
　　"Wouldn't miss it," Skywalker smiled. For just a moment, he almost felt like aboy again.
　　"Well, how we doing?" Han raised his eyebrows.
　　"Same as always," said Luke.
　　"Oh-oh," Solo replied under his breath. He felt one hundred percent relaxed.Just like old times-but a second later, a bleak thought chilled him.
　　"Where's Leia? Is she´"
　　her eyes had been fixed on him from the moment he'd entered the room,though-guarding his spirit with her own. When he spoke of her now, sheresponded instantly, calling from her place on Jabba's throne. "I'm all right, but Idon't know how much longer I can hold off your slobbering friend, here." She wasintentionally cavalier, to put Solo at ease. Besides, the sight of all her friends thereat once made her feel nearly invincible. Han, Luke Chewie, Lando-even Threepiowas skulking around somewhere, trying to be forgotten. Leia almost laughed outloud, almost punched Jabba in the nose. She could barely restrain herself. Shewanted to hug them all.
　　Suddenly Jabba shouted; the entire room was immediately silent. "Talkdroid!"
　　Timidly, Threepio stepped forward and with an embarrassed, self-effacing headgesture, addressed the captives. "His High Exaltedness, the great Jabba the Hutt, hasdecreed that you are to be terminated immediately.
　　Solo said loudly, "That's good, I hate long waits´"
　　"Your extreme offense against His Majesty," Threepio went on, "demands themost torturous form of death´"
　　"No sense in doing things halfway," Solo cracked. Jabba could be so pompous,sometimes, and now with old Goldenrod, there, making his pronouncements´
　　No matter what else, Threepio simply hated being interrupted. He collectedhimself, nonetheless, and continued. "You will be taken to the Dune Sea, where youwill be thrown into the Great Pit of Carkoon-"
　　Han shrugged, then turned to Luke. "That doesn't sound too bad."
　　Threepio ignored the interruption. "´the resting place of the all-powerfulSarlacc. In his belly you will find a new definition of pain and suffering, as youslowly digest for a thousand years."
　　"On second thought we could pass on that," Solo reconsidered. A thousandyears was a bit much.
　　Chewie barked his whole-hearted agreement.
　　Luke only smiled. "You should have bargained, Jabba. This is the lastmistake you'll ever make." Luke was unable to suppress the satisfaction in his voice.He found Jabba despicable-a leech of the galaxy, sucking the life from whatever hetouched. Luke wanted to burn the villain, and so was actually rather glad Jabba hadrefused to bargain-for now Luke would get his wish precisely. Of course, hisprimary objective was to free his friends, whom he loved dearly; it was this concernthat guided him now, above all else. But in the process, to free the universe of thisgangster slug-this was a prospect that tinted Luke's purpose with an ever-so-slightlydark satisfaction.
　　Jabba chortled evilly. "Take them away." At last, a bit of pure pleasure on anotherwise dreary day-feeding the Sarlacc was the only thing he enjoyed as much asfeeding the Rancor. Poor Rancor.
　　A loud cheer rose from the crowd as the prisoners were carried off. Leia lookedafter them with great concern; but when she caught a glimpse of Luke's face she wasstirred to see it still fixed in a broad, genuine smile. She sighed deeply, to expel herdoubts.
　　Jabba's giant antigravity Sail Barge glided slowly over the endless Dune Sea.Its sand-blasted iron hull creaked in the slight breeze, each puff of wind coughing intothe two huge sails as if even nature suffered some terminal malaise wherever it camenear Jabba. He was belowdecks, now, with most of his court, hiding the decay of hisspirit from the cleansing sun.
　　Alongside the barge, two small skiffs floated in formation-one an escort craft,bearing six scruffy soldiers; the other, a gun skiff, containing the prisoners: Han,Chewie, Luke. They were all in bonds, and surrounded by armed guards-Barada,two Weequays. And Lando Calrissian.
　　Barada was the no-nonsense sort, and not likely to let anything get out of hand.He carried a long-gun as if he wanted nothing more than to hear it speak.
　　The Weequays were an odd sort. They were brothers, leathery and bald savefor a tribal top-knot, braided and worn to the side. No one was certain whetherWeequay was the name of their tribe, or their species; or whether all in their tribewere brothers, or all were named Weequays. It was known only that these two werecalled by this name, and that they treated all other creatures indifferently. With eachother they were gentle, even tender; but like Barada, they seemed anxious for theprisoners to misbehave.
　　And Lando, of course, remained silent, ready-waiting for an opportunity. Thisreminded him of the lithium scam he'd run on Pesmenben IV-they'd salted thedunes there with lithium carbonate, to con this Imperial governor into leasing theplanet. Lando, posing as a nonunion mine guard, had made the governor lie facedown in the bottom of the boat and throw his bribe overboard when the "unionofficials" raided them. They'd gotten away scot-free on that one; Lando expectedthis job would go much the same, except they might have to throw the guardsoverboard as well.
　　Han kept his ear tuned, for his eyes were still useless. He spoke with recklessdisregard, to put the guards at ease-to get them used to his talking and moving, sowhen the time came for him really to move, they'd be a critical fraction behind hismark. And, of course-as always-he spoke just to hear himself speak.
　　"I think my sight is getting better," he said, squinting over the sand. "Instead ofbig dark blur, I see a big bright blur."
　　"Believe me, you're not missing anything." Luke smiled. "I grew up here."
　　Luke thought of his youth on Tatooine, living on his uncle's farm, cruising in hissouped-up landspeeder with his few friends-sons of other settlers, sitting their ownlonely outposts. Nothing ever to do here, really, for man or boy, but cruise themonotonous dunes and try to avoid the peevish Tusken Raiders who guarded the sandas if it were gold-dust. Luke knew this place.
　　He'd met Obi-wan Kenobi, here-old Ben Kenobi, the hermit who'd lived in thewilderness since nobody knew when. The man who'd first shown Luke the way ofthe Jedi.
　　Luke thought of him now with great love, and great sorrow. For Ben was, morethan anyone, the agent of Luke's discoveries and losses-and discoveries of losses.
　　Ben had taken Luke to Mos Eisley, the pirate city on the western face of Tatooine,to the cantina where they'd first met Han Solo, and Chewbacca the Wookiee. Takenhim there after Imperial stormtroopers had murdered Uncle Owen and Aunt Beru,searching for the fugitive droids, Artoo and Threepio.
　　That's how it had all started for Luke, here on Tatooine. Like a recurring dreamhe knew this place; and he had sworn then that he would never return.
　　"I grew up here," he repeated softly.
　　"And now we're going die here," Solo replied.
　　"I wasn't planning on it," Luke shook himself out of his reverie.
　　"If this is your big plan, so far I'm not crazy about it."
　　"Jabba's palace was too well guarded. I had to get you out of there. Just stayclose to Chewie and Lando. We'll take care of everything."
　　"I can hardly wait." Solo had a sinking feeling this grand escape depended onLuke's thinking he was a Jedi-a questionable premise at best, considering it was anextinct brotherhood that had used a Force he didn't really believe in anyway. A fastship and a good blaster are what Han believed in, and he wished he had them now.
　　Jabba sat in the main cabin of the Sail Barge, surrounded by his entire retinue.The party at the palace was simply continuing, in motion-the result being a slightlywobblier brand of carousing-more in the nature of a prelynching celebration. Soblood lust and belligerence were testing new levels.
　　Threepio was way out of his depth. At the moment, he was being forced totranslate an argument between Ephant Mon and Ree-Yees, concerning a point ofquark warfare that was marginally beyond him. Ephant Mon, a bulky uprightpachydermoid with an ugly, betusked snout, was taking (to Threepio's way ofthinking) an untenable position. However, on his shoulder sat Salacious Crumb, theinsane little reptilian monkey who had the habit of repeating verbatim everythingEphant said, thereby effectively doubling the weight of Ephant's argument.
　　Ephant concluded the oration with a typically bellicose avowal. "Woossiejawamba boog!"
　　Threepio didn't really want to translate this to Ree-Yees, the three-eyed goat-facewho was already dunk as a spicer, but he did.
　　All three eyes dilated in fury. "Backawa! Backawa!" Without furtherpreamble, he punched Ephant Mon in the snout, sending him flying into a school ofSquid Heads.
　　See-Threepio felt this response needed no translation, and took the opportunity toslip to rear-where he promptly bumped into a small droid serving drinks. Thedrinks spilled everywhere.
　　The stubby little droid let out a fluent series of irate beeps, toots, andwhistles-recognizable to Threepio instantly. He looked down in utter relief."Artoo! What are you doing here?"
　　"doooWEEp chWHRrrrree bedzhng."
　　"I can see you're serving drinks. But this place is dangerous. They're goingto execute Master Luke, and if we're not careful, us too!"
　　Artoo whistled-a bit nonchalantly, as far as Threepio was concerned. "I wishI had your confidence," he replied glumly.
　　Jabba chuckled to see Ephant Mon go down-he loved a good beating. Heespecially loved to see strength crumble, to see the proud fall.
　　He tugged, with his swollen fingers, on the chain attached to Princess Leia'sneck. The more resistance he met with, the more he drooled-until he'd drawn thestruggling, scantily-clad princess close to him once more.
　　"Don't stay too far, my lovely. Soon you will begin to appreciate me." Hepulled her very near and forced her to drink from his glass.
　　Leia opened her mouth and she closed her mind. It was disgusting, of course;but there were worse things, and in any case, this wouldn't last.
　　The worse things she knew well. Her standard of comparison was the nightshe'd been tortured by Darth Vader. She had almost broken. The Dark Lord neverknew how close he'd come to extracting the information he wanted from her, thelocation of the Rebel base. He had captured her just after she'd managed to sendArtoo and Threepio for help-captured her, taken her to the Death Star, injected herwith mind-weakening chemicals´and tortured her.
　　Tortured her body first, with his efficient pain-droids. Needles, pressure points,fire-knives, electrojabbers. She'd endured these pains, as she now endured Jabba'sloathsome touch-with a natural, inner strength.
　　She slid a few feet away from Jabba, now, as his attention wasdistracted-moved to peer out the slats in the louvered windows, to squint through thedusty sunlight at the skiff on which her rescuers were being carried.
　　It was stopping.
　　The whole convoy was stopping, in fact, over a huge sand pit. The Sail Bargemoved to one side of the giant depression, with the escort skiff. The prisoner's skiffhovered directly over the pit, though, perhaps twenty feet in the air.
　　At the bottom of the deep cone of sand, a repulsive, mucus-lined, pink,membranous hole puckered, almost unmoving. The hole was eight feet in diameter,its perimeter clustered with three rows of inwardly-directed needle-sharp teeth. Sandstuck to the mucus that lined the sides of the opening, occasionally sliding into theblack cavity at the center.
　　This was the mouth of the Sarlacc.
　　An iron plank was extended over the side of the prisoners' skiff. Two guardsuntied Luke's bonds and shoved him gruffly out onto the plank, straight above theorifice in the sand, now beginning to undulate in peristaltic movement and salivatewith increased mucus secretion as it smelled the meat it was about to receive.
　　Jabba moved his party up to the observation deck.
　　Luke rubbed his wrists to restore circulation. The heat shimmering off thedesert warmed his soul-for finally, this would always be his home. Born and bredin a Bantha patch. He saw Leia standing at the rail of the big barge, and winked.She winked back.
　　Jabba motioned Threepio to his side, then mumbled orders to the golden droid.Threepio stepped up to the comlink. Jabba raised his arm, and the whole motleyarray of intergalactic pirated fell silent. Threepio's voice arose, amplified by theloudspeaker.
　　"His Excellency hopes you will die honorably," Threepio announced mislaid thecorrect program. Nonetheless, he was a droid, his functions well delineated.Translation only, no free will please. He shook his head and continued. "Butshould any of you wish to beg for mercy, Jabba will now listen to your pleas."
　　Han stepped forward to give the bloated slime pot his last thoughts, in case allelse failed. "You tell that slimy piece of worm-ridden filth-"
　　Unfortunately, Han was facing into the desert, away from the Sail Barge.Chewie reached over and turned Solo around, so he was now properly facing thepiece of worm-ridden filth he was addressing.
　　Han nodded, without stopping, "-worm-ridden filth he'll get no such pleasurefrom us."
　　Chewie made a few growly noises of general agreement.
　　Luke was ready. "Jabba, this is your last chance," he shouted. "Free us ordie." He shot a quick look to Lando, who moved unobtrusively toward the back ofthe skiff. This was it, Lando figured-they'd just toss the guards overboard and takeoff under everyone's nose.
　　The monsters on the barge roared with laughter. Artoo, during this commotion,rolled silently up the ramp to the side of upper deck.
　　Jabba raised his hand, and his minions were quiet. "I'm sure you're right, myyoung Jedi friend," he smiled. Then he turned his thumb down. "Put him in."
　　The spectators cheered, as Luke was prodded to the edge of the plank byWeequay. Luke looked up at Artoo, standing alone by the rail, and flipped the littledroid a jaunty salute. At that prearranged signal, a flap slid open in Artoo's domedhead, and a projectile shot high into the air and curved in a gentle arc over the desert.
　　Luke jumped off the plank; another bloodthirsty cheer went up. In less than asecond, though, Luke had spun around in freefall, caught the end of the plank with hisfingertips. The thin metal bent wildly from his weight, paused near to snapping,then catapulted him up. In mid-air he did a complete flip and dropped down in themiddle of the plank-the spot he'd just left, only now behind the confused guards.Casually, he extended his arm to his side, palm up-and suddenly, his lightsaber,which Artoo had shot sailing toward him, dropped neatly into his open hand.
　　With Jedi speed, Luke ignited his sword and attacked the guard at the skiff-edgeof the plank, sending him, screaming, overboard into the twitching mouth of theSarlacc.
　　The other guards swarmed toward Luke. Grimly he waded into them,lightsaber flashing.
　　His own lightsaber-not his father's. He had lost his father's in the duel withDarth Vader in which he'd lost his hand as well. Darth Vader, who had told Luke hewas his father.
　　But this lightsaber Luke had fashioned himself, in Obi-wan Kenobi's abandonedhut on the other side of Tatooine-made with the old Master Jedi's tools and parts,made with love and craft and dire need. He wielded it now as if it were fused to hishand; as if it were an extension of his own arm. This lightsaber, truly, was Luke's.
　　He cut through the onslaught like a light dissolving shadow.
　　Lando grappled with the helmsman, trying to seize the controls of the skiff.The helmsman's laser pistol fired, blasting the nearby panel; and the skiff lurched tothe side, throwing another guard into the pit, knocking everyone else into a pile on thedeck. Luke picked himself up and ran toward the helmsman, lightsaber raised. Thecreature retreated at the overpowering sight, stumbled´and he, too, went over theedge, into the maw.
　　The bewildered guard landed in the soft, sandy slope of the pit and began aninexorable slide down toward the toothy, viscous opening. He clawed desperately atthe sand, screaming. Suddenly a muscled tentacle oozed out of the Sarlacc's mouth,slithered up the caked sand, coiled tightly around the helmsman's ankle, and pulledhim into the hole with a grotesques slurp.
　　All this happened in a matter of seconds. When he saw what was happening,Jabba exploded in a rage, and yelled furious commands at those around him. In amoment, there was general uproar, with creatures running through every door. Itwas during this directionless confusion that Leia acted.
　　She jumped onto Jabba's throne, grabbed the chain, which enslaved her, andwrapped it around his bulbous throat. Then she dove off the other side of thesupport, pulling the chain violently in her grasp. The small metal rings buriedthemselves in the loose folds of the Hutt's neck, like a garrote.
　　With a strength beyond her own strength, she pulled. He bucked with his hugetorso, nearly breaking her fingers, nearly yanking her arms from their sockets. Hecould get no leverage, his bulk was too unwieldy. But just his sheer mass wasalmost enough to break any mere physical restraint.
　　Yet Leia's hold was not merely physical. She closed of her eyes, closed out thepain in her hands, focused all of her life-force-and all it was able to channel-intosqueezing the breath from the horrid creature.
　　She pulled, she sweated, she visualized the chain digging millimeter bymillimeter deeper into Jabba's windpipe-as Jabba wildly thrashed, frantically twistedfrom this least expected of foes.
　　With a last gasping effort, Jabba tensed every muscle and lurched forward. Hisreptilian eyes began to bulge from their sockets as the chain tightened; his oily tongueflopped from his mouth. His thick tail twitched in spasms of effort, until he finallylay still-deadweight.
　　Leia sat about trying to free herself from the chain at her neck, while outside, thebattle began to rage.
　　Boba Fett ignited his rocket pack, leaped into the air, and with a single effortflew down from the barge to the skiff just as Luke finished freeing Han and Chewiefrom their bonds. Boba aimed his laser gun at Luke, but before he could fire, theyoung Jedi spun around, sweeping his lightsword in an arc that sliced the bountyhunter's gun in half.
　　A series of blasts suddenly erupted from the large cannon on the upper deck ofthe barge, hitting the skiff broadside, and rocking it forty degrees askew. Landograbbed a broken strut and dangled desperately above the Sarlacc. Thisdevelopment was definitely not in his game plan, and he vowed to himself neveragain to get involved in a con that he didn't run from start to finish.
　　The skiff took another direct hit from the barge's deck gun, throwing Chewie andHan against the rail. Wounded, the Wookiee howled in pain. Luke looked over athis hairy friend; whereupon Boba Fett, taking advantage of that moment of distraction,fired a cable from out of his armored sleeve.
　　The cable wrapped itself several times around Luke, pinning his arms to his sides,his sword arm now free only from the wrist down. He bent his wrist, so thelightsaber pointed straight up´and then spun toward Boba along the cable. In amoment, the lightsaber touched the end of the wire lasso, cutting through it instantly.Luke shrugged the cable away, just as another blast hit the skiff, knocking Bobaunconscious to the deck. Unfortunately this explosion also dislodged the strut fromwhich Lando was hanging, sending him careening into the Sarlacc pit. Luke wasshaken by the explosion, but unhurt. Lando hit the sandy slope, shouted for help,and tried to scramble out. The loose sand only tumbled him deeper toward thegaping hole. Lando closed his eyes and tried to think of all the ways he might givethe Sarlacc a thousand years of indigestion. He bet himself three to two he couldoutlast anybody else in the creature's stomach. Maybe if he talked that last guard outof his uniform´
　　"Don't move!" Luke screamed, but his attention was immediately diverted by theincoming second skiff, full of guards firing their weapons.
　　It was a Jedi rule-of-thumb, but it took the soldiers in the second skiff by surprise:when outnumbered, attack. This drives the force of the enemy in toward himself.Luke jumped directly into the center of the skiff and immediately began decimatingthem in their midst with lightning sweeps of his lightsaber.
　　Back in the other boat, Chewie tried to untangle to his feet. Chewie barked athim, trying to direct him toward a spear lying loose on the deck.
　　Lando screamed, starting to slide closer to the glistening jaws. He was agambling man, but he wouldn't have taken long odds on his chances of escape rightnow.
　　"Don't move, Lando!" Han called out. "I'm coming!" Then, to Chewie:"Where is it, Chewie?" He swung his hands frantically over the deck as Chewiegrowled directions, guiding Solo's movements. At last, Han locked onto the spear.
　　Boba Fett stumbled up just then, still a little dizzy from the exploding shell. Helooked over at the other skiff, where Luke was in a pitched battle with six guards.With one hand Boba steadied himself on the rail; with the other he aimed his weaponat Luke.
　　Chewie barked at Han.
　　"Which way?" shouted Solo. Chewie barked.
　　The blinded space pirate swung his long spear in Boba's direction. Instinctively,Fett blocked the blow with his forearm; again, he aimed at Luke. "Get out of myway, you blind fool," he cursed Solo.
　　Chewie barked frantically. Han swung his spear again, this time in the oppositedirection, landing the hit squarely in the middle of Boba's rocket pack.
　　The impact caused the rocket to ignite. Boba blasted off unexpectedly, shootingover the second skiff like a missile and ricocheting straight down into the pit. Hisarmored body slid quickly past Lando and rolled without pause into the Sarlacc'smouth.
　　"Rrgrrowrrbroo fro bo," Chewie growled.
　　"He did?" Solo smiled. "I wish I could have seen that-"
　　A major hit from the barge deck gun flipped the skiff on its side, sending Hanand almost everything else overboard. His foot caught on the railing, though,leaving him swinging precariously above the Sarlacc. The wounded Wookieetenaciously held on to the twisted debris astern.
　　Luke finished going through his adversaries on the second skiff, assessed theproblem quickly, and leaped across the chasm of sand to the sheer metal side of thehuge barge. Slowly, he began a hand-over-hand climb up the hull, toward the deckgun.
　　Meanwhile, on the observation deck, Leia had been intermittently struggling tobreak the chain, which bound her to the dead gangster, and hiding behind his massivecarcass whenever some guard ran by. She stretched her full length, now, trying toretrieve a discarded laser pistol-to no avail. Fortunately, Artoo at last came to herrescue, after having first lost his bearings and rolled down the wrong plank.
　　He zipped up to her finally, extended a cutting appendage from the side of hiscasing, and sliced through her bonds.
　　"Thanks, Artoo, good work. Now let's get out of here."
　　They raced for the door. On the way, they passed Threepio, lying on the floor,screaming, as a giant, tuberous hulk named Hermi Odle sat on him. SalaciousCrumb, the reptilian monkey-monster, crouched by Threepio's head, picking out thegolden droid's right eye.
　　"No! No! Not my eyes!" Threepio screamed.
　　Artoo sent a bolt of charge into Hermi Odle's backside, sending him wailingthrough a window. A similar flash blasted Salacious to the ceiling, from which hedidn't come down. Threepio quickly rose, his eye dangling from a sheaf of wires;then he and Artoo hurriedly followed Leia out the back door.
　　The deck gun blasted the tilting skiff once more, shaking out virtually everythingthat remained inside except Chewbacca. Desperately holding on with his injuredarm, he was stretching over the rail, grasping the ankle of the dangling Solo, who was,in turn, sightlessly reaching down for the terrified Calrissian. Lando had managed tostop his slippage by lying very still. Now, every time he reached up for Solo'soutstretched arm, the loose sand slid him a fraction closer to the hungry hole. Hesure hoped Solo wasn't still holding that silly business back on Bespin against him.
　　Chewie barked another direction at Han.
　　"Yeah, I know, I can see a lot better now-it must be all the blood rushing to myhead."
　　"Great," Lando called up. "Now could you just grow a few inches taller?"
　　The deck gunners on the barge were lining up this human chain in their sights forthe coup de grace, when Luke stepped in front of them, laughing like a pirate king.He lit his lightsaber before they could squeeze off a shot; a moment later they weresmoking corpses.
　　A company of guards suddenly rushed up the steps from the lower decks, firing.One of the blasts shot Luke's lightsaber from his hand. He ran down the deck, butwas quickly surrounded. Two of the soldiers manned the deck gun again. Lukelooked at his hand; the mechanism was exposed-the complex steel-and-circuitconstruction that replaced his real hand, which Vader had cut off in their lastencounter.
　　He flexed the mechanism; it still worked.
　　The deck gunners fired at the skiff below. It hit to the side of the small boat.The shock wave almost knocked Chewie loose, but in tipping the boat further, Hanwas able to grab onto Lando's wrist.
　　"Pull!" Solo yelled at the Wookiee.
　　"I'm caught!" screamed Calrissian. He looked down in panic to see one of theSarlacc's tentacles slowly wrap around his ankle. Talk about a wild card-they keptchanging the rules every five minutes in this game. Tentacles! What kind of oddswas anybody gonna give on tentacles? Very long, he decided with a fatalistic grunt;long, and sticky.
　　The deck gunners realigned their sights for the final kill, but it was all over forthem before they could fire-Leia had commandeered the second deck gun, at theother end of the ship. With her first shot she blasted the rigging that stood betweenthe two deck guns. With her second shot she wiped out the first deck gun.
　　The explosions rocked the great barge, momentarily distracting the five guardswho surrounded Luke. In that moment he reached out his hand, and the lightsaber,lying on the deck ten feet away, flew into it. He leaped straight up as two guardsfired at him-their laser bolts killed each other. He ignited his blade in the air and,swinging it as he came down, mortally wounded the others.
　　He yelled to Leia across the deck. "Point it down!"
　　She tilted the second deck gun into the deck and nodded to Threepio at the rail.
　　Artoo, beside him, beeped wildly.
　　"I can't, Artoo!" Threepio cried. "It's too far to jump´aaahhh!"
　　Artoo butted the golden droid over the edge, and then stepped off himself,tumbling head over wheel's toward the sand.
　　Meanwhile, the tug-of-war was continuing between the Sarlacc and Solo, withBaron Calrissian as the rope and the prize. Chewbacca held Han's leg, bracedhimself on the rail, and succeeded in pulling a laser pistol out of the wreckage withhis other hand. He aimed the gun toward Lando, then lowered it, barking hisconcern.
　　"He's right!" Lando called out. "It's too far!"
　　Chewbacca gave it to him. He took it with one hand, still holding on to Landowith the other.
　　"Now, wait a second, pal," Lando protested, "I thought you were blind."
　　"I'm better, trust me," Solo assured him.
　　"Do I have a choice? Hey! A little higher, please." He lowered his head.
　　Han squinted´pulled the trigger´and scored a direct hit on the tentacle. Thewormy thing instantly released its grip, slithering back into its own mouth.
　　Chewbacca pulled mightily, drawing first Solo back into the boat-and thenLando.
　　Luke, meantime, gathered Leia up in his left arm; with his right he grabbed ahold of a rope from the rigging of the half blown-down mast, and with his foot kickedthe trigger of the second deck gun-and jumped into the air as the cannon explodedinto the deck.
　　The two of them swung on the swaying rope, all the way down to the empty,hovering escort skiff. Once there, Luke steered it over to the still-listing prison skiff,where he helped Chewbacca, Han, and Lando on board.
　　The Sail Barge continued exploding behind them. Half of it was now on fire.
　　Luke guided the skiff around beside the barge, where See-Threepio's legs couldbe seen sticking straight up out of the sand. Beside them, Artoo-Detoo's periscopewas the only part of his anatomy visible above the dune. The skiff stopped justabove them and lowered a large electromagnet from its compartment in the boat'shelm. With a loud clang, the two droids shot out of the sand and locked to themagnet's plate.
　　"Ow," groaned Threepio.
　　"beeeDoo dwEET!" Artoo agreed.
　　In a few minutes, they were all in the skiff together, more or less in one piece;and for the first time, they looked at one another and realized they were all in the skifftogether, more or less in one piece. There was a great, long moment of hugging,laughing, crying, and beeping. Then someone accidentally squeezed Chewbacca'swounded arm, and he bellowed; and then they all ran about, securing the boat,checking the perimeters, looking for supplies-and sailing away.
　　The great Sail Barge settled slowly in a chain of explosions and violent fires,and-as the little skiff flew quietly off across the desert-disappeared finally in abrilliant conflagration that was only partially diminished by the scorching afternoonlight of Tatooine's twin suns.

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
    

Return of The Jedi
III

　　The sandstorm obscured everything-sight, breath, thought, motion. The roar of italone was disorienting, sounding like it came from everywhere at once, as if theuniverse were composed of noise, and this was its chaotic center.
　　The seven heroes walked step by step through the murky gale, holding on to oneanother so as not to get lost. Artoo was first, following the signal of the homingdevice, which sang to him in a language not garbled by the wind. Threepio camenext, then Leia guiding Han, and finally Luke and Lando, supporting the hobblingWookiee.
　　Artoo beeped loudly, and they all looked up: vague, dark shapes could be seenthrough the typhoon.
　　"I don't know," shouted Han. "All I can see is a lot of blowing sand."
　　"That's all any of us can see," Leia shouted back.
　　"Then I guess I'm getting better."
　　For a few steps, the dark shapes grew darker; and then out of the darkness, theMillennium Falcon appeared, flanked by Luke's X-wing and a two-seater Y-wing.As soon as the group huddled under the bulk of the Falcon, the wind died down tosomething more describable as a severe weather condition. Threepio hit a switch,and the gangplank lowered with a hum.
　　Solo turned to Skywalker. "I've got to hand it to you, kid, you were pretty goodout there."
　　Luke shrugged it off. "I had a lot of help." He started toward his X-wing.
　　Han stopped him, his manner suddenly quieter, even serious. "Thanks forcoming after me, Luke."
　　Luke felt embarrassed for some reason. He didn't know how to respond toanything but a wisecrack from the old pirate. "Think nothing of it," he finally said.
　　"No, I'm thinkin' a lot about it. That carbon freeze was the closest thing todead there is. And it wasn't just sleepin', it was a big, wide awake Nothin'."
　　A Nothing from which Luke and the others had saved him-put their own livesin great peril at his expense, for no other reason than that´he was their friend. Thiswas a new idea for the cocky Solo-at once terrible and wonderful. There wasjeopardy in this turn of events. It made him feel somehow blinder than before, butvisionary as well. It was confusing. Once, he was alone; now he was a part.
　　That realization made him feel indebted, a feeling he'd always abhorred; onlynow the debt was somehow a new kind of bond, a bond of brotherhood. It was evenfreeing, in a strange way.
　　He was no longer so alone.
　　No longer alone.
　　Luke saw a difference had come over his friend, like a sea change. It was agentle moment; he didn't want to disturb it. So he only nodded.
　　Chewie growled affectionately at the young Jedi warrior, mussing his hair like aproud uncle. And Leia warmly hugged him.
　　They all had great love for Solo, but somehow it was easier to show it by beingdemonstrative to Luke.
　　"I'll see you back at the fleet," Luke called, moving toward his ship.
　　"Why don't you leave that crate and come with us?" Solo nudged.
　　"I have a promise I have to keep first´to an old fried." A very old friend, hesmiled to himself in afterthought.
　　"Well, hurry back," Leia urged. "The entire Alliance should be assembled bynow." She saw something in Luke's face; she couldn't put a name to it, but it scaredher, and simultaneously made her feel closer to him. "Hurry back," she repeated.
　　"I will," he promised. "Come on, Artoo."
　　Artoo rolled toward the X-wing, beeping a farewell to Threepio.
　　"Good-bye, Artoo," Threepio called out fondly. "May the maker bless you.You will watch out for him, won't you, Master Luke?"
　　But Luke and the little droid were already gone, on the far end of the flyer.
　　The others stood without moving for a moment, trying to see their futures in theswirling sand.
　　Lando jarred them awake. "Come on, let's get off this miserable dirt ball."His luck here had been abominable; he hoped to fare better in the next game. Itwould be house rules for a while, he knew; but he might be able to load a few dicealong the way.
　　Solo clapped him on the back. "Guess I owe you some thanks, too, Lando."
　　"Figured if I left you frozen like that you'd just give me bad luck the rest of mylife, so I might as well get you unfrozen sooner, as later."
　　"He means 'you're welcome." Leia smiled. "We all mean you're welcome."She kissed Han on the cheek to say it personally one more time.
　　They all headed up the ramp of the Falcon. Solo paused just before goinginside and gave the ship a little pat. "You're lookin' good, old girl. I never thoughtI'd live to see you again."
　　He entered at last, closing the hatch behind him.
　　Luke did the same in the X-wing. He strapped himself into the cockpit, startedup the engines, felt the comfortable roar. He looked at his damaged hand: wirescrossed aluminum bones like spokes in a puzzle. He wondered what the solutionwas. Or the puzzle, for that matter. He pulled a black glove over the exposedinfrastructure, set the X-wing's controls, and for the second time in his life, herocketed off his home planet, into the stars.
　　The Super Star Destroyer rested in space above the half-completed Death Starbattle station and its green neighbor, Endor. The Destroyer was a massive ship,attended by numerous smaller warships of various kinds, which hovered or dartedaround the great mother ship like children of different, ages and temperaments:medium range fleet cruisers, bulky cargo vessels, TIE fighter escorts.
　　The main bay of the Destroyer opened, space-silent. An Imperial shuttleemerged and accelerated toward the Death Star, accompanied by four squads offighters.
　　Darth Vader watched their approach on the viewscreen in the control room of theDeath Star. When docking was imminent, he marched out of the command center,followed by Commander Jerjerrod and a phalanx of Imperial stormtroopers, andheaded toward the docking bay. He was about to welcome his master.
　　Vader's pulse and breathing were machine-regulated, so they could not quicken;but something in his chest became more electric around his meetings with theEmperor; he could not say how. A feeling of fullness, unrestrained passion, wildsubmission-all these things were in Vader's heart as he neared his Emperor. Thesethings and more.
　　When he entered the docking bay, thousands of Imperial troops snapped toattention with a momentous clap. The shuttle came to rest on the pod. Its ramplowered like a dragon jaw, and the Emperor's royal guard ran down, red robesflapping, as if they were licks of flame shooting out the mouth to herald the angry roar.They poised themselves at watchful guard in two lethal rows beside the ramp.Silence filled the great hall. At the top of the ramp, the Emperor appeared.
　　Slowly, he walked down. A small man was he, shriveled with age and evil.He supported his bent frame on a gnarled cane and covered himself with a long,hooded robe-much like the robe of the Jedi, only black. His shrouded face was sothin of flesh it was nearly a skull; his piercing yellow eyes seemed to burn through allat which they stared.
　　When the Emperor reached the bottom of the ramp Commander Jerjerrod, hisgenerals, and Lord Vader all kneeled before him. The Supreme Dark Rulerbeckoned to Vader, and began walking down the row of troops.
　　"Rise, my friend. I would talk with you."
　　Vader rose, and accompanied his master. They were followed in procession bythe Emperor's courtiers, the royal guard, Jerjerrod, and the Death Star elite guard,with mixed reverence and fear.
　　Vader felt complete at the Emperor's side. Though the emptiness at his corenever left him, it became a glorious emptiness in the glare of the Emperor's cold light,an exalted void that could encompass the universe. And someday would encompassthe universe´when the Emperor was dead.
　　For that was Vader's final dream. When he'd learned all he could of the darkpower from this evil genius to take that power from, seize it and keep its cold light athis own core-kill the Emperor and devour his darkness, and rule the universe. Rulewith his son at his side.
　　For that was his other dream-to reclaim his boy, to show Luke the majesty ofthis shadow force: why it was so potent, why he'd chosen rightly to follow its path.And Luke would come with him, he knew. That seed was sown. They would ruletogether, father and son.
　　His dream was very close to realization, he could feel it; it was near. Eachevent fell into place, as he'd nudged it, with Jedi subtlety; as he'd pressed, withdelicate dark strength.
　　"The Death Star will be completed on schedule, my master," Vader breathed.
　　"Yes, I know," replied the Emperor. "You have done well, Lord Vader´andnow I sense you wish to continue your search for the young Skywalker."
　　Vader smiled beneath his armored mask. The Emperor always knew the senseof what was in his heart; even if he didn't know the specifics. "Yes, my master."
　　"Patience, my friend," the Supreme Ruler cautioned. "You always haddifficulty showing patience. In time, he will seek you out´and when he does, youmust bring him before me. He has grown strong. Only together can we turn him tothe dark side of the Force."
　　"Yes, my master." Together, they would corrupt the boy-the child of thefather. Great, dark glory. For soon, the old Emperor would die-and though thegalaxy would bend from the horror of that loss, Vader would remain to rule, withyoung Skywalker at his side. As it was always meant to be.
　　The Emperor raised his head a degree, scanning all the possible futures."Everything is proceeding as I have foreseen."
　　He, like Vader, had plans of his own-plans of spiritual violation, themanipulation of lives and destinies. He chuckled to himself, savoring the nearnessof his conquest: the final seduction of the young Skywalker.
　　Luke left his X-wing parked at the edge of the water and carefully picked hisway through the adjoining swamp. A heavy mist hung in layers about him. Junglesteam. A strange insect flew at him from out of a cluster of hanging vines, flutteredmadly about his head, and vanished. In the undergrowth, something snarled. Lukeconcentrated momentarily. The snarling stopped. Luke walked on.
　　He had terribly ambivalent feelings about this place. Dagobah. His place oftests, of training to be a Jedi. This was where he'd truly learned to use the Force, tolet it flow through him to whatever end he directed it. So he'd learned howcaretaking he must be in order to use the Force well. It was walking on light; but toa Jedi it was as stable as an earthen floor.
　　Dangerous creatures lurked in this swamp; but to a Jedi, none were evil.Voracious quicksand mires waited, still as pools; tentacles mingled with the hangingvines. Luke knew them all, now, they were all part of the living planet, each integralto the Force of which he, too, was a pulsing aspect.
　　Yet there were dark things here, as well-unimaginably dark, reflections of thedark corners of his soul. He'd seen these things here. He'd run from them, he'dstruggled with them; he'd even faced them. He'd vanquished some of them.
　　But some still cowered here. These dark things.
　　He climbed around a barricade of gnarled roots, slippery with moss. On theother side, a smooth, unimpeded path led straight in the direction he wanted to go; buthe did not take it. Instead, he plunged once more into the undergrowth.
　　High overhead, something black and flapping approached, then veered away.Luke paid no attention. He just kept walking.
　　The jungle thinned a bit. Beyond the next bog, Luke saw it-the small,strangely-shaped dwelling, its odd little windows shedding a warm yellow light in thedamp rain-forest. He skirted the mire, and crouching low, entered the cottage.
　　Yoda stood smiling inside, his small green hand clutching his walking stick forsupport. "Waiting for you I was," he nodded.
　　He motioned Luke to sit in a corner. The boy was struck by how much morefrail Yoda's manner seemed-a tremor to the hand, a weakness to the voice. It madeLuke afraid to speak, to betray his shock at the old master's condition.
　　"That face you make," Yoda crinkled his tired brow cheerfully. "Look I so badto young eyes?"
　　He tried to conceal his woeful countenance, shifting his position in the crampedspace. "No, Master´of course not."
　　"I do, yes, I do!" the tiny Jedi Master chuckled gleefully. "Sick I've become.Yes. Old and weak." He pointed a crooked finger at his young pupil. "Whennine hundred years old you reach, look as good you will not."
　　The creature hobbled over to his bed, still chuckling and, with great effort, laydown. "Soon will I rest. Yes, forever sleep. Earned it, I have."
　　Luke shook his head. "You can't die, Master Yoda-I won't let you."
　　"Trained well, and strong with the Force are you-but not that strong! Twilightis upon me, and soon night must fall. That is the way of things´the way of theForce."
　　"But I need your help," Luke insisted. "I want to complete my training." Thegreat teacher couldn't leave him now-there was too much, still, to understand. Andhe'd taken so much from Yoda already, and as yet given back nothing. He had muchhe wanted to share with the old creature.
　　"No more training do you require," Yoda assured him. "Already know you thatwhich you need."
　　"Then I am a Jedi?" Luke pressed. No. He knew he was not, quite.Something still lacked.
　　Yoda wrinkled up his wizened features. "Not yet. One thing remains.Vader´Vader you must confront. Then, only then, a full Jedi you'll be. Andconfront him you will, sooner or later."
　　Luke knew this would be his test, it could not be otherwise. Every quest had itfocus, and Vader was inextricably at the core of Luke's struggle. It was agonizingfor him to put the question to words; but after a long silence, he again spoke to the oldJedi. "Master Yoda-is Darth Vader my father?"
　　Yoda's eyes filled with a weary compassion. This boy was not yet a mancomplete. A sad smile creased his face, he seemed almost to grow smaller in his bed."A rest I need. Yes. A rest."
　　Luke stared at the dwindling teacher, trying to give the old one strength, just bythe force of his love and will. "Yoda, I must know," he whispered.
　　"Your father he is," Yoda said simply.
　　Luke closed his eyes, his mouth, his heart, to keep away the truth of what heknew was true.
　　"Told you, did he?" Yoda asked.
　　Luke nodded, but did not speak. He wanted to keep the moment frozen, toshelter it here, to lock time and space in this room, so it could never escape into therest of the universe with this terrible knowledge, this unrelenting truth.
　　A look of concern filled Yoda's face. "Unexpected this is, and unfortunate-"
　　"Unfortunate that I know the truth?" A bitterness crept into Luke's voice, buthe couldn't decide if it was directed at Vader, Yoda, himself, or the universe at large.
　　Yoda gathered himself up with an effort that seemed to take all his strength."Unfortunate that you rushed to face him-that incomplete your training was´thatnot ready for the burden were you. Obi-wan would have told you long ago, had I lethim´now a great weakness you carry. Fear for you, I do. Fear for you, yes." Agreat tension seemed to pass out of him and he closed his eyes.
　　"Master Yoda, I am sorry." Luke trembled to see the potent Jedi so weak.
　　"I know, but face Vader again you must, and sorry will not help." He leanedforward, and beckoned Luke close to him. Luke crawled over to sit beside hismaster. Yoda continued, his voice increasingly frail. "Remember, a Jedi's strengthflows from the Force. When you rescued your friends, you had revenge in yourheart. Beware of anger, fear, and aggression. The dark side are they. Easily theyflow, quick to join you in a fight. Once you start down the dark path, forever will itdominate your destiny."
　　He lay back in bed, his breathing became shallow. Luke waited quietly, afraidto move, afraid to distract the old one an iota, lest it jar his attention even a fractionfrom the business of just keeping the void at bay.
　　After a few minutes, Yoda looked at the boy once more, and with a maximumeffort, smiled gently, the greatness of his spirit the only thing keeping his decrepitbody alive. "Luke-of the Emperor beware. Do not underestimate his powers, orsuffer your father's fate you will. When gone I am´last of the Jedi will you be.Luke, the Force is strong in your family. Pass on what you´have´learned´" Hebegan to falter, he closed his eyes. "There´is´another´sky´"
　　He caught his breath, and exhaled, his spirit passing from him like a sunny windblowing to another sky. His body shivered once; and he disappeared.
　　Luke sat beside the small, empty bed for over an hour, trying to fathom the depthof this loss. It was unfathomable.
　　His first feeling was one of boundless grief. For himself, for the universe.How could such a one as Yoda be gone forever? It felt like a black, bottomless holehad filled his heart, where the part that was Yoda had lived.
　　Luke had know the passing of old mentor before. It was helplessly sad; andinexorably, a part of his own growing. Is this what coming of age was, then?Watching beloved friends grow old and die? Gaining a new measure of strength ormaturity from their powerful passages?
　　A great weight of hopelessness settled upon him, just as all the lights in the littlecottage flickered out. For several more minutes he sat there, feeling it was the end ofeverything, that all the lights in the universe had flickered out. The last Jedi, sittingin a swamp, while the entire galaxy plotted the last war.
　　A chill came over him, though, disturbing the nothingness into which hisconsciousness had lapsed. He shivered, looked around. The gloom wasimpenetrable.
　　He crawled outside and stood up. Here in the swamp, nothing had changed.Vapor congealed, to drip from dangling roots back into the mire, in a cycle it hadrepeated a million times, would repeated forever. Perhaps there was his lesson. Ifso, it cut his sadness not a whit.
　　Aimlessly he made his way back to where his ship rested. Artoo rushed up,beeping his excited greetings; but Luke was disconsolate, and could only ignore thefaithful little droid. Artoo whistled a brief condolence, then remained respectfullysilent.
　　Luke sat dejectedly on a log, put his head in his hands, and spoke softly tohimself. "I can't do it. I can't go on alone."
　　A voice floated down to him on the dim mist. "Yoda and I will be with youalways." It was Ben's voice.
　　Luke turned around swiftly to see the shimmering image of Obi-wan Kenobistanding behind him. "Ben!" he whispered. There were so many things he wantedto say, they rushed through his mind all in a whirl, like the churning, puffed cargo of aship in a maelstrom. But one question rose quickly to the surface above all theothers. "Why, Ben? Why didn't you tell me?"
　　It was not an empty question. "I was going to tell you when you had completedyour training," the vision of Ben answered. "But you found it necessary to rush offunprepared. I warned you about your impatience." His voice was unchanged, ahint of scolding, a hint of love.
　　"You told me Darth Vader betrayed and murdered my father." The bitternesshe'd felt earlier, with Yoda, had found its focus now on Ben.
　　Ben absorbed the vitriol undefensively, then padded it with instruction. "Yourfather, Anakin, was seduced by the dark side of the Force-He ceased to be AnakinSkywalker, and became Darth Vader. When that happened, he betrayed everythingthat Anakin Skywalker believed in. The good man who was your father wasdestroyed. So what I told you was true´from a certain point of view."
　　"A certain point of view!" Luke rasped derisively. He felt betrayed-by lifemore than anything else, though only poor Ben was available to take the brunt of hisconflict.
　　"Luke," Ben spoke gently, "you're going to find that many of the truth we clingto depend greatly on our point of view."
　　Luke turned unresponsive. He wanted to hold onto his fury, to guard it like atreasure. It was all he had, he would not let it be stolen from him, as everything elsehad been stolen. But already he felt it slipping, softened by Ben's compassionatetouch.
　　"I don't blame you for being angry," Ben coaxed. "If I was wrong in what I did,it certainly wouldn't have been for the first time. You see, what happened to yourfather was my fault´"
　　Luke looked up with sudden acute interest. He'd never heard this and wasrapidly losing his anger to fascination and curiosity-for knowledge was an addictivedrug, and the more he had the more he wanted.
　　As he sat on his stump, increasingly mesmerized, Artoo pedaled over, silent, justto offer a comforting presence.
　　"When I first encountered your father," Ben continued, "he was already a greatpilot. But what amazed me was how strongly the Force was with him. I took itupon myself to train Anakin in the ways of the Jedi. My mistake was thinking Icould be as good a teacher as Yoda. I was not. Such was my foolish pride. TheEmperor sensed Anakin's power, and he lured him to the dark side." He pausedsadly and looked directly into Luke's eyes, as if he were asking for the boy'sforgiveness. "My pride had terrible consequences for the galaxy."
　　Luke was entranced. That Obi-wan's hubris could have caused his father's fallwas horrible. Horrible because of what his father had needlessly become, horriblebecause Obi-wan wasn't perfect, wasn't even a perfect Jedi, horrible because the darkside could strike so close to him, could turn such right so wring. Darth Vader mustyet have a spark of Anakin Skywalker deep inside. "There is still good in him," hedeclared.
　　Ben shook his head remorsefully. "I also thought he could be turned back to thegood side. It couldn't be done. He is more machine, now, than man-twisted, andevil."
　　Luke sensed the underlying meaning in Kenobi's statement, he heard the wordsas a command. He shook his head back at the vision. "I can't kill my own father."
　　"You should not think of that machine as your father." It was the teacherspeaking again. "When I saw what had become of him, I tried to dissuade him, todraw him back from the dark side. We fought´your father fell into a molten pit.When your father clawed his way out of that fiery pool, the change had been burnedinto him forever-he was Darth Vader, without a trace of Anakin Skywalker.Irredeemably dark. Scarred. Kept alive only by machinery and his own blackwill´"
　　Luke looked down at his own mechanical right hand. "I tried to stop him once.I couldn't do it." He would not challenge his father again. He could not.
　　"Vader humbled you when first you met him, Luke-but that experience waspart of your training. It taught you, among other things, the value of patience. Hadyou not been so impatient to defeat Vader then, you could have finished your traininghere with Yoda. You would have been prepared."
　　"But I had to help my friends."
　　"And did you help them? It was they who had to save you. You achievedlittle by rushing back prematurely, I fear."
　　Luke's indignation melted, leaving only sadness in its wake. "I found out DarthVader was my father," he whispered.
　　"To be a Jedi, Luke, you must confront and then go beyond the dark side-theside your father couldn't get past. Impatience is the easiest door-for you, like yourfather. Only, your father was seduced by what he found on the other side of the door,and you have held firm. You're no longer so reckless now, Luke. You are strongand patient. And you are ready for your final confrontation."
　　Luke shook his head again, as the implications of the old Jedi's speech becameclear. "I can't do it, Ben."
　　Obi-wan Kenobi's shoulders slumped in defeat. "Then the Emperor has alreadywon. You were our only hope."
　　Luke reached for alternatives. "Yoda said I could train another to´"
　　"The other he spoke of is your twin sister," the old man offered a dry smile."She will find it no easier than you to destroy Darth Vader."
　　Luke was visibly jolted by this information. He stood up to face this spirit."Sister? I don't have a sister."
　　Once again Obi-wan put a gentle inflection in his voice, to soothe the turmoilbrewing in his young friend's soul. "To protect you both against the Emperor, youwere separated when you were born. The Emperor knew, as I did, that one day, withthe Force on their side, Skywalker's offspring would be a threat to him. For thatreason, your sister has remained safely anonymous."
　　Luke resisted this knowledge at first. He neither needed nor wanted a twin.He was unique! He had no missing parts-save the hand whose mechanicalreplacement he now flexed tightly. Pawn in a castle conspiracy? Cribs mixed,siblings switched and parted and whisked away to different secret lives? Impossible.He knew who he was! He was Luke Skywalker, born to a Jedi-turned-Sithlord,raised on a Tatooine sandfarm by Uncle Owen and Aunt Beru, raised in a life withoutfrills, a hardworking honest pauper-because his mother´his mother´What was itabout his mother? What had she said, who was she? What had she told him? Heturned his mind inward, to a place and time far from the damp soil of Dagobah, to hismother's chamber, his mother and his´sister. His sister´
　　"Leia! Leia is my sister," he exclaimed, nearly falling over the stump.
　　"Your insight serves you well," Ben nodded. He quickly became stern, though."Bury your feelings deep down, Luke. They do you credit, but they could be madeto serve the Emperor."
　　Luke tried to comprehend what his old teacher was saying. So muchinformation, so fast, so vital´it almost made him swoon.
　　Ben continued his narrative. "When your father left, he didn't know yourmother was pregnant. Your mother and I knew he would find out eventually, but wewanted to keep you both as safe as possible, for as long as possible. So I took you tolive with my brother Owen, on Tatooine´and your mother took Leia to live as thedaughter of Senator Organa, on Alderaan."
　　Luke settled down to hear this tale, as Artoo nestled up beside him, humming ina subaudible register to comfort.
　　Ben, too, kept his voice even, so that the sounds could give solace when thewords did not. "The Organa family was high-born and politically quite powerful inthat system. Leia became a princess by virtue of lineage-no one knew she'd beenadopted, of course. But it was a title without real power, since Alderaan had longbeen a democracy. Even so, the family continued to be politically powerful, andLeia, following in her foster father's path, became a senator as well. That's not allshe became, of course-she became the leader of her cell in the Alliance against thecorrupt Empire. And because she had diplomatic immunity, she was a vital link forgetting information to the Rebel cause."
　　"That's what she was doing when her path crossed yours-for her foster parentshad always told her to contact me on Tatooine, if her troubles became desperate."
　　Luke tried sorting through his multiplicity of feelings-the love he'd always feltfor Leia, even from afar, now had a clear basis. But suddenly he was feelingprotective toward her as well, like an older brother-even though, for all he knew, shemight have been his elder by several minutes.
　　"But you can't let her get involved now, Ben," he insisted. "Vader will destroyher." Vader. Their father. Perhaps Leia could resurrect the good in him.
　　"She hasn't been trained in the ways of the Jedi the way you have, Luke-but theForce is strong with her, as it is with all of your family. That is why her path crossedmine-because the Force in her must be nourished by a Jedi. You're the last Jedi,now, Luke´but she returned to us-to me-to learn, and grow. Because it was herdestiny to learn and grow; and mine to teach."
　　He went on more slowly, each word deliberate, each pause emphatic. "Youcannot escape your destiny, Luke." He locked his eyes on Luke's eyes, and put asmuch of his spirit as he could into the gaze, to leave it forever imprinted on Luke'smind. "Keep your sister's identity secret, for if you fail she is truly our last hope.Gaze on me now, Luke-the coming fight is yours alone, but much will depend on itsoutcome, and it may be that you can draw some strength from my memory. There isno avoiding the battle, though-you can't escape your destiny. You will have to faceDarth Vader again´"

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
    

Return of The Jedi
IV

　　Darth Vader stepped out of the long, cylindrical elevator into what had been the DeathStar control room, and now was the Emperor's throne room. Two royal guards stoodeither side of the door, red robes from neck to toe, red helmets covering all buteyeslits that were actually electrically modified view-screens. Their weapons werealways drawn. 
　　The room was dim except for the light cables running either side of the elevatorshaft, carrying power and information through the space station. Vader walkedacross the sleek black steel floor, past the humming giant converter engines, up theshort flight of steps to the platform level upon which sat the Emperor's throne.Beneath this platform, off to the right, was the mouth of the shaft that delved deeplyinto the pit of the battle station, down to the very core of the power unit. The chasmwas black, and reeked of ozone, and echoed continuously in a low, hollow rumble.
　　At the end of the overhanging platform was a wall, in the wall, a huge, circularobservation window. Sitting in an elaborate control-chair before the window, staringout into space, was the Emperor,
　　The uncompleted half of the Death Star could be seen immediately beyond thewindow, shuttles and transports buzzing around it, men with tight-suits androcket-packs doing exterior construction or surface work. In the near-distancebeyond all this activity was the jade green moon Endor, resting like a jewel on theblack velvet of space-and scattered to infinity, the gleaming diamonds that were thestars.
　　The Emperor sat, regarding this view, as Vader approached from behind. TheLord of Sith kneeled and waited. The Emperor let him wait. He perused the vistabefore him with a sense of glory beyond all reckoning: this was all his. And moreglorious still, all his by his own hand.
　　For it wasn't always so. Back in the days when he was merely SenatorPalpatine, the galaxy had been a Knighthood that had watched it over it for centuries.But inevitably it had grown too large-to massive a bureaucracy had been required,over too many years, in order to maintain the Republic. Corruption had set in.
　　A few greedy senators had started the chain reaction of malaise, some said: butwho could know? A few suddenly a fever was in the stars. Governor turned ongovernor, values eroded, trusts were broken-fear had spread like an epidemic inthose early years, rapidly and without visible cause, and no one knew what washappening, or why.
　　And so Senator Palpatine had seized the moment. Through fraud, cleverpromises, and astute political maneuvering, he'd managed to get himself elected headof the Council. And then through subterfuge, bribery and terror, he'd named himselfEmperor.
　　Emperor. It had a certain ring to it. The Republic had crumbled, the Empirewas resplendent with its own fires, and would always be so-for the Emperor knewwhat others refused to believe: the dark forces were the strongest.
　　He'd known this all along, in his heart of hearts-but relearned it every day:from traitorous lieutenants who betrayed their superiors for favors; fromweak-principled functionaries who gave him the secrets of lords, and sadisticgangsters, and power-hungry politicians. No one was immune, they all craved thedark energy at their core. The Emperor had simply recognized this truth, andutilized it-for his own aggrandizement, of course.
　　For his soul was the black center of the Empire.
　　He contemplated the dense impenetrability of the deep space beyond the window.Densely black as his soul-as if he were, in some real way, this blackness; as if hisinner spirit was itself this void over which he reigned. He smiled at the thought: hewas the Empire; he was the Universe.
　　Behind him, he sensed Vader still waiting in genuflection. How long had theDark Lord been there? Five minutes? Ten? The Emperor was uncertain. Nomatter. The Emperor had not quite finished his meditation.
　　Lord Vader did not mind waiting, though, nor was he even aware of it. For itwas an honor, and a noble activity, to kneel at his ruler's feet. He kept his eyesinward, seeking reflection in his own bottomless core. His power was great, now,greater than it had ever been. It shimmered from within, and resonated with thewaves of darkness that flowed from the Emperor. He felt engorged with this power,it surged like black fire, demon electrons looking for ground´but he would wait.For his Emperor was not ready; and his son was not ready, and the time was not yet.So he waited.
　　Finally the chair slowly rotated until the Emperor faced Vader.
　　Vader spoke first. "What is thy bidding, my master?"
　　"Send the fleet to the far side of Endor. There it will stay until called for."
　　"And what of the reports of the Rebel fleet massing near Sullust?"
　　"It is of no concern. Soon the Rebellion will be crushed and the youngSkywalker will be one of us. Your work here is finished, my friend. Go out to thecommand ship and await my order."
　　"Yes, my master." He hoped he would be given command over the destructionof the Rebel Alliance. He hoped it would be soon.
　　He rose and exited, as the Emperor turned back to the galactic panorama beyondthe window, to view his domain.
　　In a remote and midnight vacuum beyond the edge of the galaxy, the vast Rebelfleet stretched, from its vanguard to its rear echelon, past the range of human vision.Corellian battle ships, cruisers, destroyers, carriers, bombers, Sullustain cargofreighter, Calamarian tankers, Alderaanian gunships, Kesselian blockade runners,Bestinian skyhoppers, X-wing, Y-wing, and A-wing fighters, shuttles, transportvehicles, manowars. Every Rebel in the galaxy, soldier and civilian alike, waitedtensely in these ships for instructions. They were led by the largest of the Rebel StarCruisers, the Headquarters Frigate.
　　Hundreds of Rebel commanders, of all species and lifeforms, assembled in thewar room of the giant Star Cruiser, awaiting orders from the High Command.Rumors were everywhere, and an air of excitement spread from squadron to squadron.
　　At the center of the briefing room was a large, circular light-table, projectedabove which a holographic image of the unfinished Imperial Death Star hoveredbeside the Moon of Endor, whose scintillating protective deflector shieldencompassed them both.
　　Mon Mothma entered the room. A stately, beautiful woman of middle age, sheseemed to walk above the murmurs of the crowd. She wore white robes with goldbraiding, and her severity was not without cause-for she was the elected leader ofthe Rebel Alliance.
　　Like Leia's adopted father-like Palpatine the Emperor himself-Mon Mothmahad been a senior senator of the Republic, a member of the High Council. When theRepublic had begun to crumble, Mon Mothma had remained a senator until the end,organizing dissent, stabilizing the increasingly ineffectual government.
　　She had organized cells, too, toward the end. Pockets of resistance, each ofwhich was unaware of the identity of the others-each of which was responsible forinciting revolt against the Empire when it finally made itself manifest.
　　There had been other leaders, but many were killed when the Empire's firstDeath Star annihilated the planet Alderaan. Leia's adopted father died in thatcalamity.
　　Mon Mothma went underground. She joined her political cells with thethousands of guerrillas and insurgents the Empire's cruel dictatorship had spawned.Thousands more joined this Rebel Alliance. Mon Mothma became theacknowledged leader of all the galaxy's creatures who had been left homeless by theEmperor. Homeless, but not without hope.
　　She traversed the room, now, to the holographic display where she conferredwith her two chief advisors, General Madine and Admiral Ackbar. Madine wasCorellian-tough, resourceful, if a bit of martinet. Ackbar was pure Calamarian-agentle, salmon-colored creature, with huge, sad eyes set in a high-domed head, andwebbed hands that made him more at home in water or free space than on board aship. But if the humans were the arm of the Rebellion, the Calamarians were thesoul-which isn't to say they couldn't fight with the best, when pushed to the limit.And the evil Empire had reached that limit.
　　Lando Calrissian made his way through the crowd, now, scanning faces. Hesaw Wedge, who was to be his wing pilot-they nodded at each other, gave thethumbs-up sign; but then Lando moved on. Wedge wasn't the one he was lookingfor. He made it to a clearing near the center, peered around, finally saw his friendsstanding by a side door. He smiled and wandered over.
　　Han, Chewie, Leia, and the two droids greeted Lando's appearance with acacophony of cheers, laughs, beeps, and barks.
　　"Well, look at you," Solo chided, straightening the lapel of Calrissian's newuniform and pulling on the insignias: "A general!"
　　Lando laughed affectionately. "I'm a man of many faces and many costumes.Someone must have told them about my little maneuver at the battle of Taanab."Bandits from Norulac. Calrissian-before his stint as governor of Cloud City-hadwiped out the bandits against all odds, using legendary flying and unheard ofstrategies. And he'd done it on a bet.
　　Han opened his eyes wide with sarcasm. "Hey, don't look at me. I just toldthem you were a 'fair' pilot. I had no idea they were looking for someone to leadthis crazy attack."
　　"That's all right, I asked for it. I want to lead this attack." For one thing, heliked dressing up like a general. People gave him the respect he deserved, and hedidn't have to give up flying circles around some pompous Imperial militarypoliceman. And that was the other thing-he was finally going to stick it to thisImperial navy, stick it so it hurt, for all the times he'd been stuck. Stick it and leavehis signature on it. General Calrissian, thank you.
　　Solo looked at his old friend, admiration combined with disbelief. "Have youever seen one of those Death Stars? You're in for a very short generalship, oldbuddy."
　　"I'm surprised they didn't ask you to do it," Lando smiled.
　　"Maybe they did," Han intimated. "But I'm not crazy. You're the respectableone, remember? Baron-Administrator of the Bespin Cloud City?"
　　Leia moved closer to Solo and took his arm protectively. "Han is going to stayon the command ship with me´we're both very grateful for what you're doing,Lando. And proud."
　　Suddenly, at the center of the room, Mon Mothma signaled for attention. Theroom fell silent. Anticipation was keen.
　　"The data brought to us by the Bothan spies have been confirmed," the supremeleader announced. "The Empire has made a critical error, and the time for our attackhas come."
　　This caused a great stir in the room. As if her message had been a valve lettingoff pressure, the air hissed with comment. She turned to the hologram of the DeathStar, and went on. "We now have the exact location of the Emperor's new battlestation. The weapon systems on this Death Star are not yet operational. With theImperial fleet spread throughout the galaxy in a vain effort to engage us, it isrelatively unprotected." She paused here, to let her next statement register its fulleffect. "Most important, we have learned the Emperor himself is personallyoverseeing the construction."
　　A volley of spirited chatter erupted from the assembly. This was it. Thechance. The hope no one could hope to hope for. A shot at the Emperor.
　　Mon Mothma continued when the hubbub died down slightly. "His trip wasundertaken in the utmost secrecy, but he underestimated our spy network. ManyBothans died to bring us this information." Her voice turned suddenly stern again toremind them of the price of this enterprise.
　　Admiral Ackbar stepped forward. His specialty was Imperial defenseprocedures. He raised his fin and pointed at the holographic model of the force fieldemanating from Endor. "Although uncompleted, the Death Star is not entirelywithout a defense mechanism," he instructed in soothing Calamarian tones. "It isprotected by an energy shield which is generated by the nearby Moon of Endor, here.No ship can fly through it, no weapon can penetrate it." He stopped for a longmoment. He wanted the information to sink in. when he thought it had, he spokemore slowly. "The shield must be deactivated if any attack is to be attempted.Once the shield is down, the cruisers will create a perimeter while the fighters fly intothe superstructure, here´and attempt to hit the main reactor´" he pointed to theunfinished portion of the Death Star "´somewhere in here."
　　Another murmur swept over the room of commanders, like a swell in a heavysea.
　　Ackbar concluded. "General Calrissian will lead the fighter attack."
　　Han turned to Lando, his doubts gilded with respect. "Good luck, buddy."
　　"Thanks," said Lando simply.
　　"You're gonna need it."
　　Admiral Ackbar yielded the floor to General Madine, who was in charge ofcovert operations. "We have acquired a small Imperial shuttle," Madine declaredsmugly. "Under this guise, a strike team will land on the moon and deactivate theshield generator. The control bunker is well guarded, but a small squad should beable to penetrate its security."
　　This news stimulated another round of general mumbling.
　　Leia turned to Han and said under her breath, "I wonder who they found to pullthat one off?"
　　Madine called out: "General Solo, is your strike team assembled?"
　　Leia looked up at Han, shock quickly melting to joyous admiration. She knewthere was a reason she loved him-in spite of his usual crass insensitivity and oafishbravado. Beneath it all, he had heart.
　　Moreover, a change had come over him since he emerged from carbonization.He wasn't just a loner selfish edge and had somehow, subtly, become part of thewhole. He was actually doing something for someone else, now, and that factmoved Leia greatly. Madine had called him General; that meant Han had let himselfofficially become a member of the army. A part of the whole.
　　Solo responded to Madine. "My squad is ready, sir, but I need a command crewfor the shuttle." He looked questioningly at Chewbacca, and spoke in a lower voice."It's gonna be rough, old pal. I didn't want to speak for you."
　　"Roo roowfl," Chewbacca shook his head with gruff love, and raised his hairypaw.
　　"That's one," Han called.
　　"Here's two!" Leia shouted, sticking her arm in the air. Then softly, to Solo:"I'm not letting you out of my sight again, Your Generalship."
　　"And I'm with you, too!" a voice was raised from the back of the room.
　　They all turned their heads to see Luke standing at the top of the stairs.
　　Cheers went up for the last of the Jedi.
　　And though it wasn't his style, Han was unable to conceal his joy. "That'sthree," he smiled.
　　Leia ran up to Luke and hugged him warmly. She felt a special closeness tohim all of a sudden, which she attributed to the gravity of the moment, the import oftheir mission. But then she sensed a change in him, too, a difference of substancethat seemed to radiate from his very core-something that she alone could see.
　　"What is it, Luke?" she whispered. She suddenly wanted to hold him; shecould not have said why.
　　"Nothing. I'll tell you someday," he murmured quietly. It was distinctly notnothing, though.
　　"All right," she answered, not pushing. "I'll wait." She wondered. Maybehe was just dressed differently-that was probably it. Suited up all in black now-itmade him look older. Older, that was it.
　　Han, Chewie, Lando, Wedge, and several others crowded around Luke all atonce, with greetings and diverse sorts of hubbub. The assembly as a whole broke upinto multiple such small groups. It was a time for last farewells and good graces.
　　Artoo beeped a singsong little observation to a somewhat less sanguine Threepio.
　　"I don't think 'exciting' is the right word," the golden droid answered. Being atranslator in his master program, of course, Threepio was most concerned withlocating the right word to describe the present situation.
　　The Millennium Falcon rested in the main docking bay of the Rebel Star Cruiser,getting loaded and serviced. Just beyond it sat the stolen Imperial shuttle, lookinganomalous in the midst of all the Rebel X-wing fighters.
　　Chewie supervised the final transfer of weapons and supplies to the shuttle andoversaw the placement of the strike team. Han stood with Lando between the twoships, saying good-bye-for all they knew, forever.
　　"I mean it, take her!" Solo insisted, indicating the Falcon. "She'll bring youluck. you know she's the fastest ship in the whole fleet, now." Han had reallysouped her up after winning her from Lando. She'd always been fast, but now shewas much faster. And the modifications Solo added had really made the Falcon apart of him-he'd put his love and sweat into it. His spirit. So giving her to Landonow was truly Solo's final transformation-as selfless a gift as he'd ever given.
　　And Lando understood. "Thanks, old buddy. I'll take good care of her. Youknow I always flew her better than you did, anyway. She won't get a scratch on her,with me at the stick."
　　Solo looked warmly at the endearing rogue. "I've got your word-not ascratch."
　　"Take off, you pirate-next thing you'll have me putting down a securitydeposit."
　　"See you soon, pal."
　　They parted without their true feelings expressed aloud, as was the way betweenmen of deeds in those times; each walked up the ramp into a different ship.
　　Han entered the cockpit of the Imperial shuttle as Luke was doing some finetuning on a rear navigator panel. Chewbacca, in the copilot's seat, was trying tofigure out the Imperial controls. Han took the pilot's chair, and Chewbacca growledgrumpily about the design.
　　"Yeah, yeah," Solo answered, "I don't think the Empire designed it with aWookiee in mind."
　　Leia walked in from the hold, taking her seat near Luke. "We're all set backthere."
　　"Rrrwfr," said Chewie, hitting the first sequence of switches. He looked over atSolo, but Han was motionless, staring out the window at something. Chewie andLeia both followed his gaze to the object of his unyielding attention-the MillenniumFalcon.
　　Leia gently nudged the pilot. "Hey, you awake up there?"
　　"I just got a funny feeling," Han mused. "Like I'm not going to see her again."He thought of the times she'd saved him with her speed, of the times he'd saved withhis cunning, or his touch. He thought of the universe they'd seen together, of theshelter she'd given him; of the way he knew her, inside and out. Of the times they'dslept in each other's embrace, floating still as a quiet dream in the black silence ofdeep space.
　　Chewbacca, hearing this, took his own longing look at the Falcon. Leia put herhand on Solo's shoulder. She knew he had special love for his ship and wasreluctant to interrupt this last communion. But time was dear, and becoming dearer."Come on, Captain," she whispered. "Let's move."
　　Han snapped back to the moment. "Right. Okay, Chewie, let's find out whatthis baby can do."
　　They fired up the engines in the stolen shuttle, eased out of the docking bay, andbanked off into the endless night.
　　Construction on the Death Star proceeded. Traffic in the area was thick withtransport ships, TIE fighters and equipment shuttles. Periodically, the Super StarDestroyer orbited the area, surveying progress on the space station from every angle.
　　The bridge of the Star Destroyer was a hive of activity. Messengers ran backand forth along a string of controllers studying their tracking screens, monitoringingress and egress of vehicles through the deflector shield. Codes were sent andreceived, orders given, diagrams plotted. It was an operation involving a thousandscurrying ships, and everything was proceeding with maximum efficiency, untilController Jhoff made the shield from Sector Seven.
　　"Shuttle to Control, please come in," the voice broke into Jhoff's headset withthe normal amount of static.
　　"We have you on our screen now," the controller replied into his comlink."Please identify."
　　"This is Shuttle Tydirium, requesting deactivation of the deflector shield."
　　"Shuttle Tydirium, transmit the clearance code for shield passage."
　　Up in the shuttle, Han threw a worried look at the others and said into hiscomlink, "Transmission commencing."
　　Chewie flipped a bank of switches, producing a syncopated series ofhigh-frequency transmission noises.
　　Leia bit her lip, bracing herself for fight or flight. "Now we find out if thatcode was worth the price we paid."
　　Chewie whined nervously.
　　Luke stared at the huge Super Star Destroyer that loomed everywhere in front ofthem. It fixed his eye with its glittering darkness, filled his vision like a malignantcataract-but it made more than his vision opaque. It filled his mind with blackness,too; and his heart. Black fear, and a special knowing. "Vader is on that ship," hewhispered.
　　"You're jittery, Luke," Han reassured them all. "There are lots of commandships. But, Chewie," he cautioned, "let's keep our distance, without looking likewe're keeping our distance."
　　"Awroff rwrgh rrfrough?"
　　"I don't know-fly casual," Han barked back.
　　"They're taking a long time with that code clearance," Leia said tightly. Whatif it didn't work? The Alliance could do nothing if the Empire's deflector shieldremained functioning. Leia tried to clear her mind, tried to focus on the shieldgenerator she wanted to reach, tried to weed away all feelings of doubt or fear shemay have been giving off.
　　"I'm endangering the mission," Luke spoke now, in a kind of emotionalresonance with his secret sister. His thoughts were of Vader, though: their father."I shouldn't have come."
　　Han tried to buoy things up. "Hey, why don't we try to be optimistic aboutthis?" He felt beleaguered by negativity.
　　"He knows I'm here," Luke avowed. He kept staring at the command ship outthe view-window. It seemed to taunt him. It awaited.
　　"Come on, kid, you're imagining things."
　　"Ararh gragh," Chewie mumbled. Even he was grim.
　　Lord Vader stood quite still, staring out a large view-screen at the Death Star.He thrilled to the sight of this monument to the dark side of the Force. Icily hecaressed it with his gaze.
　　Like a floating ornament, it sparkled for him. A magic globe. Tiny specks oflight raced across its surface, mesmerizing the Dark Lord as if he were a small childentranced by a special toy. It was a transcendant state he was inn, a moment ofheightened perceptions.
　　And then, all at once, in the midst of the stillness of his contemplation, he grewabsolutely motionless: not a breath, not even a heartbeat stirred to mar hisconcentration. He strained his every sense into the ether. What had he felt? Hisspirit tilted its head to listen. Some echo, some vibration apprehended only by him,had passed-no, had not passed. Had swirled the moment and altered the very shapeof things. Things were no longer the same.
　　He walked down the row of controllers until he came to the spot where AdmiralPiett was leaning over the tracking screen of Controller Jhoff. Piett straightened atVader's approach, then bowed stiffly, at the neck.
　　"Where is that shuttle going?" Vader demanded quietly, without preliminary.
　　Piett turned back to the view-screen and spoke into the comlink. "ShuttleTydirium, what is your cargo and destination?"
　　The filtered voice of the shuttle pilot came back over the receiver. "Parts andtechnical personnel for the Sanctuary Moon."
　　The bridge commander looked to Vader for a reaction. He hoped nothing wasamiss. Lord Vader did not take mistakes lightly.
　　"Do they have a code clearance?" Vader questioned.
　　"It's an older code, but it checks out," Piett replied immediately. "I was aboutto clear them." There was no point in lying to the Lord of the Sith. He alwaysknew if you lied; lies sang out to the Dark Lord.
　　"I have a strange feeling about that ship," Vader said more to himself than toanyone else.
　　"Should I hold them?" Piett hurried, anxious to please his master.
　　"No, let them pass, I will deal with this myself."
　　"As you wish, my Lord." Piett bowed, partly to hide his surprise. He nodded atController Jhoff, who spoke into the comlink, to Shuttle Tydirium.
　　In the Shuttle Tydirium, the group waited tensely. The more questions theywere asked about things like cargo and destination, the more likely it seemed theywere going to blow their cover.
　　Han looked fondly at his old Wookiee partner. "Chewie, if they don't go forthis, we're gonna have to beat it quick." It was a good-bye speech, really; they allknew this pokey shuttle wasn't about to outrun anything in the neighborhood.
　　The static voice of the controller broke up, and then came in clearly over thecomlink. "Shuttle Tydirium, deactivation of the shield will commence immediately.Follow your present course."
　　Everyone but Luke exhaled in simultaneous relief; as if the trouble were all overnow, instead of just beginning. Luke continued to stare at the command ship, as ifengaged in some silent, complex dialogue.
　　Chewie barked loudly.
　　"Hey, what did I tell you?" Han grinned. "No sweat."
　　Leia smiled affectionately. "Is that what you told us?"
　　Solo pushed the throttle forward, and the stolen shuttle moved smoothly towardthe green Sanctuary Moon.
　　Vader, Piett, and Jhoff watched the view-screen in the control room, as theweblike deflector grid readout parted to admit the Shuttle Tydirium, which movedslowly toward the center of the web-to Endor.
　　Vader turned to the deck officer and spoke with more urgency in his voice thanwas usually heard. "Ready my shuttle. I must go to the Emperor."
　　Without waiting for response, the Dark Lord strode off, clearly in the thrall of adark thought.

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
    

Return of The Jedi
V

　　The trees of Endor stood a thousand feet tall. Their trunks, covered with shaggy, rustbark, rose straight as a pillar, some of them as big around as a house, some thin as aleg. Their foliage was spindly, but lush in color, scattering the sunlight in delicateblue-green patterns over the forest floor. 
　　Distributed thickly among these ancient giants was the usual array of woodsyflora-pines of several species, various deciduous forms, variously gnarled and leafy.The groundcover was primarily fern, but so dense in spots as to resemble a gentlegreen sea that rippled softly in the forest breeze.
　　This was the entire moon: verdant, primeval, silent. Light filtered through thesheltering branches like golden ichor, as if the very air were alive. It was warm, andit was cool. This was Endor.
　　The stolen Imperial shuttle sat in a clearing many miles from the Imperiallanding port, camouflaged with a blanket of dead branches, leaves, and mulch. Inaddition the little ship was thoroughly dwarfed by the towering trees. Its steely hullmight have looked incongruous here, had it not been so totally inconspicuous.
　　On the hill adjacent to the clearing, the Rebel contingent was just beginning tomake its way up a steep trail. Leia, Chewie, Han, and Luke led the way, followed insingle file by the raggedy, helmeted squad of the strike team. This unit wascomposed of elite groundfighters of the Rebel Alliance. A scruffy bunch in someways, they'd each been had-picked for initiative, cunning, and ferocity. Some weretrained commandos, some paroled criminals-but they all hated the Empire with apassion that exceeded self-preservation. And they all knew this was the crucial raid.If they failed to destroy the shield generator here, the Rebellion was doomed. Nosecond chances.
　　Consequently, no one had tell them to be alert as they made their way silently upthe forest path. They were, every on, more alert than they had ever been.
　　Artoo-Detoo and See-Threepio brought up the rear of brigade. Artoo's domedpates swiveled 'round and 'round as he went, blinking his sensor lights at theinfinitely tall trees which surrounded them.
　　"Beee-doop!" he commented to Threepio.
　　"No, I don't think it's pretty here," his golden companion replied testily. "Withour luck, it's inhabited solely by droid-eating monsters."
　　The trooper just ahead of Threepio turned around and gave them a harsh"Shush!"
　　Threepio turned back to Artoo, and whispered, "Quiet, Artoo."
　　They were all a bit nervous.
　　Up ahead, Chewie and Leia reached the crest of the hill. They dropped to theground, crawled the last few feet, and peered over the edge. Chewbacca raised hisfeet, and peered over the edge. Chewbacca raised his great paw, signaling the rest ofthe group to stop. All at once, the forest seemed to become much more silent.
　　Luke and Han crawled forward on their bellies, to view what the others wereobserving. Pointing through the ferns, Chewie and Leia cautioned stealth. Not farbelow, in a glen beside a clear pool, two Imperial scouts had set up temporary camp.They were fixing a meal of rations and were preoccupied warming it over a portablecooker. Two speeder bikes were parked nearby.
　　"Should we try to go around?" whispered Leia.
　　"It'll take time," Luke shook his head.
　　Han peeked from behind a rock. "Yeah, and if they catch sight of us and report,this whole party's for nothing."
　　"Is it just the two of them?" Leia still sounded skeptical.
　　"Let's take a look," smiled Luke, with a sigh of tension about to be released; theyall responded with a similar grin. It was beginning.
　　Leia motioned the rest of the squad to remain where they were; then she, Luke,Han, and Chewbacca quietly edged closer to the scout camp.
　　When they were quite near the clearing, but still covered by underbrush, Soloslid quickly to the lead position. "Stay here," he rasped, "Chewie and I will takecare of this." He flashed them his most roguish smile.
　　"Quietly," warned Luke, "there might be-"
　　But before he could finish, Han jumped up with his furry partner and rushed intothe clearing.
　　"-more out there," Luke finished speaking to himself. He looked over at Leia.
　　She shrugged. "What'd you expect?" Some things never changed.
　　Before Luke could respond, though, they were distracted by a loud commotion inthe glen. They flattened to the ground and watched.
　　Han was engaged in a rousing fist fight with one of the scouts-he hadn't lookedso happy in days. The other scout jumped on his speeder bike to escape. But bythe time he'd ignited the engines, Chewie was able to get off a few shots from hiscrossbow laser. The ill-fated scout crashed instantly against an enormous tree; abrief, muffled explosion followed.
　　Leia drew her laser pistol and raced into the battle zone, followed closely byLuke. As soon as they were running clear, though, several large laser blasts went offall around them, tumbling them to the ground. Leia lost her gun.
　　Dazed, they both looked up to see two more Imperial scouts emerge from the farside of the clearing, heading for their speeder bikes hidden in the peripheral foliage.The scouts holstered their pistols as they mounted the bikes and fired up the engines.
　　Leia staggered to her feet, "Over there, two more of them!"
　　"I see 'em," answered Luke, rising. "Stay here."
　　But Leia had ideas of her own. She ran to the remaining rocket speeder,charged it up, and took off in pursuit of the fleeing scouts. As she tore past Luke, hejumped up behind her on the bike, and off the flew.
　　"Quick, center switch," he shouted to her over her shoulder, over the roar of therocket engines. "Jam their comlinks!"
　　As Luke and Leia soared out of the clearing after the Imperials, Han and Chewiewere just subduing the last scout. "Hey, wait!" Solo shouted; but they were gone.He threw his weapon to the ground in frustration, and the rest of the Rebel commandosquad poured over the rise into the clearing.
　　Luke and Leia sped through the dense foliage, a few feet off the ground, Leia atthe controls, Luke grabbing on behind her. The two escaping Imperial scouts had agood lead, but at two hundred miles per hour, Leia was the better pilot-the talent ranin her family.
　　She let off a burst from the speeder's laser cannon periodically, but was still toofar behind to be very accurate. The explosions hit away from the moving targets,splintering trees and setting the shrubbery afire, as the bikes weaved in and outbetween massive, imposing branches.
　　"Move closer!" Luke shouted.
　　Leia opened the throttle, closed the gap. The two scouts sensed their pursuergaining and recklessly veered this way and that, skimming through a narrow openingbetween two trees. One of the bikes scraped the bark, tipping the scout almost out ofcontrol, slowing him significantly.
　　"Get alongside!" Luke yelled into Leia's ear.
　　She pulled her speeder so close to the scout's, their steering vanes scrapedhideously against each other. Luke suddenly leaped from the back of Leia's bike tothe back of the scout's, grabbed the Imperial warrior around the neck, and flipped himoff. The white-armored trooper smashed into a thick trunk with a bone-shatteringcrunch, and settled forever into the sea of ferns.
　　Luke scooted forward to the driver's seat of the speeder bike, played with thecontrols a few seconds, and lurched forward, following Leia, who'd pulled ahead.The two of them now tore after the remaining scout.
　　Over hill and under stonebridge they flew, narrowly avoiding collision, flamingdry vines in their afterburn. The chase swung north and passed a gully where twomore Imperial scouts were resting. A moment later, they swung into pursuit, nowhot on Luke and Leia's tail, blasting away with laser cannon. Luke, still behind Leiatook a glancing blow.
　　"Keep on that one!" he shouted up at her, indicating the scout in the lead. "I'lltake the two behind us!"
　　Leia shot ahead. Luke, at the same instant, flared up his retrorocket, slammingthe bike into rapid deceleration. The two scouts on his tail zipped past him in a bluron either side, unable to slow their momentum. Luke immediately roared into highvelocity again, firing with his blasters, suddenly in pursuit of his pursuers.
　　His third round hit its mark: one of the scouts, blown out of control, wentspinning against a boulder in a rumble of flame.
　　The scout's cohort took a single glance at the flash, and put his bike intosupercharge mode, speeding even faster. Luke kept pace.
　　Far ahead, Leia and the first scout continued their own high-speed slalomthrough the barricades of impassive trunks and low-slung branches. She had tobrake through so many turns, in fact, Leia seemed unable to draw any closer to herquarry. Suddenly she shot into the air, at an unbelievably steep incline, and quicklyvanished from sight.
　　The scout turned in confusion, uncertain whether to relax or cringe at hispursuer's sudden disappearance. Her whereabouts became clear soon enough. Outof the tree-tops, Leia dove down on him, cannon blasting from above. The scout'sbike took the shock wave from a near hit. Her speed was even greater than she'danticipated, and in a moment she was racing alongside him. But before she knewwhat was happening, he reached down and drew a handgun from his holster-andbefore she could react, he fired.
　　Her bike spun out of control. She jumped free just in time-the speederexploded on a giant tree, as Leia rolled clear into a tangle of matted vines, rotting logs,shallow water. The last thing she saw was the orange fireball through a cloud ofsmoking greenery; and then blackness.
　　The scout looked behind him at the explosion, with a satisfied sneer. When hefaced forward again, though, the smug look faded, for he was on a collision coursewith a fallen tree. In a moment it was all over but the flaming.
　　Meanwhile, Luke was closing fast on the last scout. As they wove from tree totree, Luke eased up behind and then drew even with the Imperial rider. The fleeingsoldier suddenly swerved, slamming his bike into Luke's-they both tippedprecariously, barely missing a large fallen trunk in their path. The scout zoomedunder it, Luke over it-and when he came down on the other side, he crashed directlyon top of the scout's vehicle. Their steering vanes locked.
　　The bikes were shaped more or less like one-man sleds, with long thin rodsextending from their snouts, and fluttery ailerons for guidance at the tip of the rods.With these vanes locked, the bikes flew as one, though either rider could steer.
　　The scout banked hard right, to try to smash Luke into an onrushing grove ofsaplings on the right. But at the last second Luke leaned all his weight left, turningthe locked speeders actually horizontal, with Luke on top, the scout on the bottom.
　　The biker scout suddenly stopped resisting Luke's leftward leaning and threw hisown weight in the same direction, resulting in the bikes flipping over three hundredsixty degrees and coming to rest exactly upright once more´but with an enormoustree looming immediately in front of Luke.
　　Without thinking, he leaped from his bike. A fraction of a second later, thescout veered steeply left-the steering vanes separated-and Luke's riderless speedercrashed explosively into the redwood.
　　Luke rolled, decelerating, up a moss-covered slope. The scout swooped high,circled around, and came looking for him.
　　Luke stumbled out of the bushes as the speeder was bearing down on him fullthrottle, laser cannon firing. Luke ignited his lightsaber and stood his ground. Hisweapon deflected every bolt the scout fired at Luke; but the bike kept coming. In afew moments, the two would meet; the bike accelerated even more, intent on bodilyslicing the young Jedi in half. At the last moment, though, Luke steppedaside-with perfect timing, like a master matador facing a rocket-powered a singlemighty slash of his lightsaber.
　　The bike quickly began to shudder; then pitch and roll. In a second it was outof control entirely, and in another second it was a rumbling billow of fire on the forestfloor.
　　Luke snuffed out his lightsaber and headed back to join the others.
　　Vader's shuttle swung around the unfinished portion of the Death Star and settledfluidly into the main docking bay. Soundless bearings lowered the Dark Lord's ramp;soundless were his feet as they glided down the chilly steel. Chill with purpose werehis strides, and swift.
　　The main corridor was filled with courtiers, all awaiting an audience with theEmperor. Vader curled his lip at them-fools, all. Pompous toadys in their velvetrobes and painted faces; perfumed bishops passing notes and passing judgmentsamong themselves-for who else cared; oily favor-merchants, bent low from theweight of jewelry still warm from a previous owner's dying flesh; easy, violent menand women, lusting to be tampered with.
　　Vader had no patience for such petty filth. He passed them without a nod,though many of them would have paid dearly for felicitous glance from the high DarkLord.
　　When he reached the elevator to the Emperor's tower, he found the door closed.Red-robed, heavily armed royal guards flanked the shaft, seemingly unaware ofVader's presence. Out of the shadow, an officer stepped forward, directly in LordVader's path, preventing his further approach.
　　"You may not enter," the officer said evenly.
　　Vader did not waste words. He raised his hand, fingers outstretched, toward theofficer's throat. Ineffably, the officer began to choke. His knees started buckling,his face turned ashen.
　　Gasping for air, he spoke again. "It is the´Emperor's´command."
　　Like a spring, Vader released the man from his remote grip. The officer,breathing again, sank to the floor, trembling. He rubbed his neck gently.
　　"I will await his convenience," Vader said. He turned and looked out of theview window. Leaf-green Endor glowed there, floating black space, almost as if itwere radiant from some internal source of energy. He felt its pull like a magnet, likea vacuum, like a torch in dead night.
　　Han and Chewie crouched opposite each other in the forest clearing, being quiet,being near. The rest of the strike squad relaxed-as much as was possible-spreadout around them in groups of twos and threes. They all waited.
　　Even Threepio was silent. He sat beside Artoo, polishing his fingers for lack ofanything better to do. The others checked their watches, or their weapons, as theafternoon sunlight ticked away.
　　Artoo sat, unmoving except for the little radar screen that stuck out the top of hisblue and silver dome, revolving, scanning the forest. He exuded the calm patienceof a utilized function, a program being run.
　　Suddenly, he beeped.
　　Threepio ceased his obsessive polishing and looked apprehensively into theforest. "Someone's coming," he translated.
　　The rest of the squad faced out; weapons were raised. A twig cracked beyondthe western perimeter. No one breathed.
　　With a weary stride, Luke stepped out of the foliage, into the clearing. Allrelaxed, lowered their guns. Luke was tired to care. He plopped down on the harddirt beside Solo and lay back with an exhausted groan.
　　"Hard day, huh kid?" Han commented.
　　Luke sat up on one elbow, smiling. It seemed like an awful lot of effort andnoise just to nail a couple of Imperial scouts; and they hadn't even gotten to the reallytough part yet. But Han could still maintain his light tone. It was a state of grace,his particular brand of charm. Luke hoped it never vanished from the universe."Wait'll we get to that generator," he retorted in kind.
　　Solo looked around, into the forest Luke had just come from. "Where's Leia?"
　　Luke's face suddenly turned to one of concern. "She didn't come back?"
　　"I thought she was with you," Han's voice marginally rose in pitch and volume.
　　"We got split up," Luke explained. He exchanged a grim look with Solo, thenboth of them slowly stood. "We better look for her."
　　"Don't you want to rest a while?" Han suggested. He could see the fatigue inLuke's face and wanted to spare him for the coming confrontation, which wouldsurely take more strength than any of them had.
　　"I want to find Leia," he said softly.
　　Han nodded, without argument. He signaled to the Rebel officer who wassecond in command of the strike squad. The officer ran up and saluted.
　　"Take the squad ahead," ordered Solo. "We'll rendezvous at the shieldgenerator at 0-30."
　　The officer saluted again and immediately organized the troops. Within aminute they were filing silently into the forest, greatly relieved to be moving at last.
　　Luke, Chewbacca, General Solo, and the two droids faced in the oppositedirection. Artoo led the way, his revolving scanner sensing for all the parametersthat described his mistress; and the others followed him into the woods.
　　The first thing Leia was aware of was her left elbow. It was wet. It was lyingin a pool of water, getting quite soaked.
　　She moved the elbow out of the water with a little splash, revealing somethingelse: pain-pain in her entire arm when it moved. For the time being, she decided tokeep it still.
　　The next thing to enter her consciousness were sounds. The splash her elbowhad made, the rustle of leaves, an occasional bird chirp. Forest sounds. With agrunt, she took a short breath and noted the grunting sound.
　　Smells began to fill her nostrils next: humid mossy smells, leafy oxygen smells,the odor of a distant honey, the vapor of rare flowers.
　　Taste came with smell-the taste of blood on her tongue. She opened andclosed her mouth a few times, to localize where the blood was coming from; but shecouldn't. Instead, the attempt only brought the recognition of new pains-in herhead, in her neck, in her back. She started to move her arms again, but this entaileda whole catalogue of new pains; so once again, she rested.
　　Next she allowed temperature to waft into her sensorium. Sun warmed thefingers of her right hand, while the palm, in shadow, stayed cool. A breeze draftedthe back of her legs. Her left hand, pressed against the skin of her belly, was warm.
　　She felt´awake.
　　Slowly-reticent actually to witness the damage, since seeing things made themreal, and seeing her own broken body was not a reality she wanted toacknowledge-slowly, she opened her eyes. Things were blurry here at ground level.Hazy browns and grays in the foreground, becoming progressively brighter andgreener in the distance. Slowly, things came into focus.
　　Slowly, she saw the Ewok.
　　A strange, small, furry creature, he stood three feet from Leia's face and no morethan three feet tall. He had large, dark, curious, brownish eyes, and stubby littlefinger-paws. Completely covered, head to foot, with soft, brown fur, he looked likenothing so much as the stuffed baby Wookiee doll Leia remembered playing with as achild. In face, when he first saw the creature standing before her, she thought itmerely a dream, a childhood memory rising out of her addled brain.
　　But this wasn't a dream. It was an Ewok. And his name was Wicket.
　　Now was he exclusively cute-for as Leia focused further, she could see a knifestrapped to his waist. It was all he wore, save for a thing leather mantle onlycovering his head.
　　They watched each other, unmoving, for a long minute. The Ewok seemedpuzzled by the princess; uncertain of what she was, or what she intended. At themoment, Leia intended to see if she could sit up.
　　She sat up, with a groan.
　　The sound apparently frightened the little fluffball; he rapidly stumbledbackward, tripped, and fell. "Eeeeep!" he squeaked.
　　Leia scrutinized herself closely, looking for signs of serious damage. Herclothes were torn; she had cuts bruises, and scrapes everywhere-but nothing seemedto be broken or irreparable. On the other hand, she had no idea where she was.She groaned again.
　　That did it for the Ewok. He jumped up, grabbed a four-foot-long spear, andheld it defensively in her direction. Warily, he circled, poking the pointed javelin ather, clearly more fearful than aggressive.
　　"Hey, cut that out," Leia brushed the weapon away with annoyance. That wasall she needed now-to be skewered by a teddy bear. More gently, she added:"I'm not going to hurt you."
　　Gingerly, she stood up, testing her legs. The Ewok backed away with caution.
　　"Don't be afraid," Leia tried to put reassurance into her voice. "I just want tosee what happened to my bike here." She knew the more she talked in this tone, themore at ease it would put the little creature. Moreover, she knew if she was talking,she was doing okay.
　　Her legs were a little unsteady, but she was able to walk slowly over to thecharred remains of the speeder, now lying in a half-melted pile at the base of thepartially blackened tree.
　　Her movement was away from the Ewok, who, like a skittish puppy, took this asa safe sign and followed her to the wreckage. Leia picked the Imperial scout's laserpistol off the ground; it was all that was left of him.
　　"I think I got off at the right time," she muttered.
　　The Ewok appraised the scene with his big, shiny eyes, nodded, shook his head,and squeaked vociferously for several seconds.
　　Leia looked all around her at the dense forest, then sat down, with a sigh, on afallen log. She was at eye-level with the Ewok, now, and they once again regardedeach other, a little concerned. "Trouble is, I'm sort of stuck here," she confided."And I don't even know where here is."
　　She put her head in her hands, partly to mull over the situation, partly to rubsome of the soreness from her temples. Wicket sat down beside her and mimickedher posture exactly-head in paws, elbows on knees-then let out a little sympatheticEwok sigh.
　　Leia laughed appreciatively and scratched the small creature's furry head,between the ears. He purred like a kitten.
　　"You wouldn't happen to have a comlink on you by any chance?" Bigjoke-but she hoped maybe talking about it would give her an idea. The Ewokblinked a few times-but he only gave her a mystified look. Leia smiled. "No, Iguess not."
　　Suddenly Wicket froze; his ears twitched, and he sniffed the air. He tilted hishead in an attitude of keen attention.
　　"What is it?" Leia whispered. Something was obviously amiss. Then sheheard it: a quiet snap in the bushes beyond, a tentative rustling.
　　All at once the Ewok let out a loud, terrified screech. Leia drew her pistol,jumping behind the log; Wicket scurried beside her and squeezed under it. A longsilence followed. Tense, uncertain, Leia trained her senses on the near underbrush.Ready to fight.
　　For all her readiness, she hadn't expected the laser bolt to come from where itdid-high, off to the right. It exploded in front of the log with a shower of light andpine needles. She returned the fire quickly-two short blasts-then just as quicklysensed something behind her. Slowly she swiveled, to find an Imperial scoutstanding over her, his weapon leveled at her head. He reached out his hand for thepistol she held.
　　"I'll take that," he ordered.
　　Without warning, a furry hand came out from under the log and jabbed the scoutin the leg with a knife. The man howled in pain, began jumping about on one foot.
　　Leia dove for his fallen laser pistol. She rolled, fired and hit the scout squarelyin the chest, flash-burning his heart.
　　Quickly the forest was quiet once more, the noise and light swallowed up as ifthey had never been. Leia lay still where she was, panting softly, waiting for anotherattack. None came.
　　Wicket poked his fuzzy head up from under the log, and looked around. "Eeeprrp scrp ooooh," he mumbled in a tone of awe.
　　Leia hopped up, ran all about the area, crouched, turned her head from side toside. It seemed safe for the time being. She motioned to her chubby new friend."Come on, we'd better get out of here."
　　As they moved into the thick flora, Wicket took the lead. Leia was unsure atfirst, but he shrieked urgently at her and tugged her sleeve. So she relinquishedcontrol to the odd little beast and followed him.
　　She cast her mind adrift for a while, letting her feet carry her nimbly alongamong the gargantuan trees. She was struck, suddenly, not by the smallness of theEwok who guided her, but by her own smallness next to these trees. They were tenthousand years old, some of them, and tall beyond sight. They were temples to thelife-force she championed; they reached out to the rest of the universe. She feltherself part of their greatness, but also dwarfed by it.
　　And lonely. She felt lonely here, in this forest of giants. All her life she'dlived among giants of her own people: her father, the great Senator Organa; hermother, then Minister of Education; her peers and friends, giants all´
　　But these trees. They were like mighty exclamation points, announcing theirown preeminence. They were here! They were older than time! They would behere long after Leia was gone, after the Rebellion, after the Empire´
　　And then she didn't feel lonely again, but felt a part again, of these magnificent,poised beings. A part of them across time, and space, connected by the vibrant, vitalforce, of which´
　　It was confusing. A part, and apart. She couldn't grasp it. She felt large andsmall, brave and timid. She felt like a tiny, creative spark, dancing about in the firesof life´dancing behind a furtive, pudgy midget bear, who kept beckoning her deeperinto the woods.
　　It was this, then, that the Alliance was fighting to preserve-furry creatures inmammoth forests helping scared, brave princesses to safety. Leia wished her parentswere alive, so she could tell them.
　　Lord Vader stepped out of the elevator and stood at the entrance to the throneroom. The light-cables hummed either side of the shaft, casting an eerie glow on theroyal guards who waited there. He marched resolutely down the walkway, up thestairs, and paused subserviently behind the throne. He kneeled, motionless.
　　Almost immediately, he heard the Emperor's voice. "Rise. Rise and speak,my friend."
　　Vader rose, as the throne swiveled around, and the Emperor faced him.
　　They made eye contact from light-years and a soul's breath away. Across thatabyss, Vader responded. "My master, a small Rebel force has penetrated the shieldand landed on Endor."
　　"Yes, I know." There was no hint of surprise in his tone; rather, fulfillment.
　　Vader noted this, then went on. "My son is with them."
　　The Emperor's brow furrowed less than a millimeter. His voice remained cool,unruffled, slightly curious. "Are you sure?"
　　"I felt him, my master." It was almost a taunt. He knew the Emperor wasfrightened of young Skywalker, afraid of his power. Only together could Vader andthe Emperor hope to pull the Jedi Knight over to the dark side. He said it again,emphasizing his own singularity. "I felt him."
　　"Strange, that I have not," the Emperor murmured, his eyes becoming slits.They both knew the Force wasn't all-powerful-and no one was infallible with its use.It had everything to do with awareness, with vision. Certainly, Vader and his sonwere more closely linked than was the Emperor with young Skywalker-but, inaddition, the Emperor was now aware of a crosscurrent he hadn't read before, abuckle in the Force he couldn't quite understand. "I wonder if your feelings on thismatter are clear, Lord Vader."
　　"They are clear, my master." He knew his son's presence, it galled him andfueled him and lured him and howled in a voice of its own. "Then you must go to the Sanctuary Moon and wait for him," Emperor Palpatinesaid simply. As long as things were clear, things were clear.
　　"He will come to me?" Vader asked skeptically. This was not what he felt. Hefelt drawn.
　　"Of his own free will," the Emperor assured him. It must be of his own freewill, else all was lost. A spirit could not be coerced into corruption, it had to beseduced. It had to participate activity. It had to crave. Luke Skywalker knewthese things, and still he circled the black fire, like a cat. Destinies could never beread with absolute certainty-but Skywalker would come, that was clear. "I haveforeseen it. His compassion for you will be his undoing." Compassion had alwaysbeen the weak belly of the Jedi, and forever would be. It was the ultimatevulnerability. The Emperor had none. "The boy will come to you, and you willthen bring him before me."
　　Vader bowed low. "As you wish."
　　With casual malice, the Emperor dismissed the Dark Lord. With grimanticipation, Vader strode out of the throne room, to board the shuttle for Endor.
　　Luke, Chewie, Han, and Threepio picked their way methodically through theundergrowth behind Artoo, whose antenna continued to revolve. It was remarkablethe way the little droid was able to blaze a trail over jungle terrain like this, but he didit without fuss, the miniature cutting tools on his walkers and dome slicing neatlythrough anything too dense to push out of the way.
　　Artoo suddenly stopped, causing some consternation on the part of his followers.His radar screen spun faster, he clicked and whirred to himself, then darted forwardwith an excited announcement. "Vrrr dEEp dWP booooo dWEE op!"
　　Threepio raced behind him. "Artoo says the rocket bikes are right up-oh,dear."
　　They broke into the clearing just ahead of the others, but all stopped in a clumpon entering. The charred debris of three speeder bikes was strewn around thearea-not to mention the remains of some Imperial scouts.
　　They spread out to inspect the rubble. Little of note was evident, except a tornpiece of Leia's jacket. Han held it soberly, thinking.
　　Threepio spoke quietly. "Artoo's sensor find no other trace of Princess Leia."
　　"I hope she's nowhere near here, now," Han said to the trees. He didn't want toimagine her loss. After all that had happened, he simply couldn't believe it wouldend this way for her.
　　"Looks like she ran into two of them," Luke said, just to say something. Noneof them wanted to draw any conclusions.
　　"She seems to have done all right," Han responded somewhat tersely. He wasaddressing Luke, but speaking to himself.
　　Only Chewbacca seemed uninterested in the clearing in which they werestanding. He stood facing the dense foliage beyond, then wrinkled his nose, sniffing.
　　"Rahrr!" he shouted, plunging into the thicket. The others rushed after him.
　　Artoo whistled softly, nervously.
　　"Picking up what?" Threepio snapped. "Try to be more specific, would you?"
　　The trees became significantly taller as the group pushed on. Not that it waspossible to see any higher, but the girth of the trunks was increasingly massive. Therest of the forest was thinning a bit in the process, making passage easier, but givingthem the distinct sense that they were shrinking. It was an ominous feeling.
　　All at once the undergrowth gave way again, to yet another open space. At thecenter of this clearing, a huge several shanks of raw meat. The searchers stared, thencautiously walked to the stake.
　　"What's this?" Threepio voiced the collective question.
　　Chewbacca's nose was going wild, in some kind of olfactory delirium. He heldhimself back as long as he could, but was finally unable to resist: he reached out forone of the slabs of meat.
　　"No wait!" shouted Luke. "Don't-"
　　But it was too late. The moment the meat was pulled from the stake, a huge netsprang up all around the adventurers, instantly hoisting them high above the ground,in a twisting jumble of arms and legs.
　　Artoo whistled wildly-he was programmed to hate being upside-down-as theWookiee bayed his regret.
　　Han peeled a hairy paw away from his mouth, spitting fur. "Great, Chewie.Nice work. Always thinking with your stomach-"
　　"Take it easy," called Luke. "Let's just figure out how to get out of this thing."He tried, but was unable, to free his arms; one locked behind him through the net, onepinned to Threepio's leg. "Can anyone reach my lightsaber?"
　　Artoo was bottommost. He extended his cutting appendage and began clippingthe loops of the vinery net.
　　Solo, meantime, was trying to squeeze his arm past Threepio, trying to stretch toreach the lightsaber hanging at Luke's waist. They settled, jerkily, as Artoo cutthrough another piece of mesh, leaving Han pressed face to face with the protocoldroid.
　　"Out of the way, Goldenrod-unh-get off of-"
　　"How do you think I feel?" Threepio charged. There was no protocol in asituation like this.
　　"I don't really-" Han began, but suddenly Artoo cut through the last link, andthe entire group crashed out of the net, to the ground. As they gradually regainedtheir senses, sat up, checked to make certain the others were all safe, one by one theyrealized they were surrounded by twenty furry little creatures, all wearing soft leatherhoods, or caps; all brandishing spears.
　　One came close to Han, pushing a long spear in his face, screeching "eeee wk!"
　　Solo knocked the weapon aside, with a curt directive. "Point that thingsomewhere else."
　　A second Ewok became alarmed, and lunged at Han. Again, he deflected thespear, but in the process got cut on the arm.
　　Luke reached for his lightsaber, but just then a third Ewok ran forward, pushingthe more aggressive ones out of the way, and shrieked a long string of seeminginvective at them, in a decidedly scolding tone. At this, Luke decided to hold off onhis lightsaber.
　　Han was wounded and angry, though. He started to holster, with a look."Don't-it'll be all right," he added. Never confuse ability with appearance, Benused to tell him-or actions with motivations. Luke was uncertain of these littlefurries, but he had a feeling.
　　Han held his arm, and held his peace, as the Ewoks swarmed around,confiscating all their weapons. Luke even relinquished his lightsaber. Chewiegrowled suspiciously.
　　Artoo and Threepio were just extracting themselves from the collapsed net, asthe Ewoks chattered excitedly to each other.
　　Luke turned to the gold droid. "Threepio, can you understand what they'resaying?"
　　Threepio rose from the mesh trap, feeling himself for dents or rattles. "Oh, myhead," he complained.
　　At the sight of his fully upright body, the Ewoks began squeaking amongthemselves, pointing and gesticulating.
　　Threepio spoke to the one who appeared to be the leader. "Chree breeb a shurrdu."
　　"Bloh wreee dbleeop weeschhreee!" answered the fuzzy beast.
　　"Du wee sheess?"
　　"Reeop glwah wrrripsh."
　　"Shreee?"
　　Suddenly one of the Ewoks dropped his spear with a little gasp and prostratedhimself before the shiny droid. In another moment, all the Ewoks followed suit.Threepio looked at his friends with a slightly embarrassed shrug.
　　Chewie let out a puzzled bark. Artoo whirred speculatively. Luke and Hanregarded the battalion of kowtowing Ewoks in wonder.
　　Then, at some invisible signal from one of their group, the small creatures beganto chant in unison: "Eekee whoh, eekee whoh, Rheakee rheekee whoh´"
　　Han looked at Threepio with total disbelief. "What'd you say to them?"
　　" 'Hello,' I think," Threepio replied almost apologetically. He hastened to add,"I could be mistaken, they're using a very primitive dialect´I believe they think I'msome sort of god."
　　Chewbacca and Artoo thought that was very funny. They spent several secondshysterically barking and whistling before they finally managed to quiet down.Chewbacca had to wipe a tear from his eye.
　　Han just shook his head with a galaxy-weary look of patience. "Well howabout using your diving influence to get us out of this?" he suggested solicitously.
　　Threepio pulled himself up to his full height, and spoke with unrelentingdecorum. "I beg your pardon, Captain Solo, but that wouldn't be proper."
　　"Proper!?" Solo roared. He always knew this pompous droid was going to gotoo far with him one day-and this might well be the day.
　　"It's against my programming to impersonate a deity," he replied to Solo, as ifnothing so obvious needed explanation.
　　Han moved threateningly toward the protocol droid, his fingers itching to pull aplug. "Listen, you pile of bolts, if you don't-" He got no farther, as fifteen Ewokspears were thrust menacingly in his face. "Just kidding," he smiled affably.
　　The procession of Ewoks wound its way slowly into the ever-darkeningforest-tiny, somber creatures, inching through a giant's maze. The sun had nearlyset, now, and the long criss-crossing shadows made the cavernous domain even moreimposing than before. Yet the Ewoks seemed well at home, turning down eachdense corridor of vines with precision.
　　On their shoulders they carried their four prisoners-Han, Chewbacca, Luke,Artoo-tied to long poles, wrapped around and around with vines, immobilizing themas if they were wriggling larvae in coarse, leafy cocoons.
　　Behind the captives, Threepio, borne on a litter-rough-hewn of branches in theshape of a chair-was carried high upon the shoulders of the lowly Ewoks. Like aroyal potentate, he perused the mighty forest through which they carried him-themagnificent lavender sunset glowing between the vinery, the exotic flowers starting toclose, the ageless trees, the glistening ferns-and knew that no one before him hadever appreciated these things in just precisely the manner he was now. No one elsehad his sensors, his circuits, his programs, his memory banks-and so in some realway, he was the creator of this little universe, its images, and colors.
　　And it was good.

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
    

Return of The Jedi
VI

　　The starry sky seemed very near the treetops to Luke as he and his friends werecarried into the Ewok village. He wasn't even aware it was a village at first-thetiny orange sparks of light in the distance he thought initially to be stars. This wasparticularly true when-dangling on his back, strapped to the pole as he was-thefiery bright points flickered directly above him, between the trees.
　　But then he found himself being hoisted up intricate stairways and hidden rampsaround the immense trunks; and gradually, the higher they went, the bigger andcracklier the lights became. When the group was hundreds of feet up in the trees,Luke finally realized the lights were bonfires-among the treetops.
　　They were finally taken out onto a rickety wooden walkway, far too far off theground to be able to see anything below them but the abysmal drop. For one bleakmoment Luke was afraid they were simply going to be pitched over the brink to testtheir knowledge of forest lore. But the Ewoks had something else in mind.
　　The narrow platform ended midway between two trees. The first creature inline grabbed hold of a long vine and swung across to the far trunk-which Luke couldsee, by twisting his head around, had a large cavelike opening carved into its titanicsurface. Vines were quickly tossed back and forth across the chasm, until soon akind of lattice was constructed-and Luke found himself being pulled across it, on hisback, still tied to the wooden poles. He looked down once, into nothingness. Itwas an unwelcome sensation.
　　On the other side they rested on a shaky, narrow platform until everyone wasacross. Then the diminutive monkey-bears dismantled the webbing of vines andproceeded into the tree with their captives. It was totally black inside, but Luke hadthe impression it was more of a tunnel through the wood than an actual cavern. Theimpression of dense, solid walls was everywhere, like a burrow in a mountain.When they emerged, fifty yards beyond, they were in the village square.
　　It was a series of wooden platforms, planks, and walkways connecting anextensive cluster of enormous trees. Supported by this scaffolding was a village ofhuts, constructed of an odd combination of stiffened leather, daub and wattle, thatchedroofs, mud floors. Small campfires burned before many of the huts-the sparkswere caught by an elaborate system of hanging vines, which funneled them to asmothering point. And everywhere, were hundreds of Ewoks.
　　Cooks, tanners, guards, grandfathers. Mother Ewoks gathered up squealingbabies at the sight of the prisoners and scurried into their huts or pointed or murmured.Dinner smoke filled the air; children played games; minstrels played strange, resonantmusic on hollow logs, windy reeds.
　　There was vast blackness below, vaster still, above; but here in this tiny villagesuspended between the two, Luke felt warmth and light, and special peace.
　　The entourage of captors and captives stopped before the largest hut. Luke,Chewie, and Artoo were leaned, on their poles, against a nearby tree. Han was tiedto a spit, and balanced above a pile of kindling that looked suspiciously like abarbecue pit. Dozens of Ewoks gathered around, chattering curiously in animatedsqueals.
　　Teebo emerged from the large structure. He was slightly bigger than most ofthe others, and undeniably fiercer. His fur was a pattern of light and dark graystripes. Instead of the usual leathery hood, he wore a horned animal half-skull atophis head, which he'd further adorned with feathers. He carried a stone hatchet, andeven for someone as small as an Ewok, he walked with a definite swagger.
　　He examined the group cursorily, then seemed to make some kind ofpronouncement. At that, a member of the hunting party stepped forward-Paploo,the mantled Ewok who seemed to have taken a more protective view toward theprisoners.
　　Teebo conferred with Paploo for a short time. The discussion soon turned intoa heated disagreement, however, with Paploo apparently taking the Rebels' side, andTeebo seemingly dismissing whatever considerations arose. The rest of the tribestood around watching the debate with great interest, occasionally shouting commentsor squeaking excitedly.
　　Threepio, whose litter/throne had been set down in a place of honor near thestake to which Solo was tied, followed the ongoing argument with rapt fascination.He began to translate once or twice for Luke and the others-but stopped after only afew words, since the debaters were talking so fast, he didn't want to lose the gist ofwhat was being said. Consequently, he didn't transmit any more information thanthe names of the Ewoks involved.
　　Han looked over at Luke with a dubious frown. "I don't like the looks of this."
　　Chewie growled his wholehearted agreement.
　　Suddenly Logray exited from the large hut, silencing everyone with his presence.Shorter than Teebo, he was nonetheless clearly the object of greater general respect.He, too, wore a half-skull on his head-some kind of great bird skull, a single feathertied to its crest. His fur was striped tan, though, and his face wise. He carried noweapon; only a pouch at his side, and a staff topped by the spine of a once-powerfulenemy.
　　One by one, he carefully appraised the captives, smelling Han, testing the fabricof Luke's clothing between his fingers. Teebo and Paploo babbled their opposingpoints of view at him, but he seemed supremely uninterested, so they soon stopped.
　　When Logray came to Chewbacca, he became fascinated, and poked at theWookiee with his staff of growled dangerously at the tiny bear-man. Logray neededno further coaching and did a quick back-step-at the same time reaching into hispouch and sprinkling some herbs in Chewie's direction.
　　"Careful, Chewie," Han cautioned from across the square. "He must be thehead honcho."
　　"No," Threepio corrected, "actually I believe he's their Medicine Man."
　　Luke was about to intervene, then decided to wait. It would be better if thisserious little community came to its own conclusions about them, in its own way.The Ewoks seemed curiously grounded for a people so airborne.
　　Logray wandered over to examine Artoo-Detoo, a most wondrous creature. Hesniffed, tapped, and stroke the droid's metal shell, then scrunched up his face in a lookof consternation. After a few moments of thought, he ordered the small robot cutdown.
　　The crowd murmured excitedly and backed off a few feet. Artoo's vine binderswere slashed by two knife-wielding guards, causing the droid to slide down his poleand crash unceremoniously to the ground.
　　The guards set him upright. Artoo was instantly furious. He zeroed in onTeebo as the source of his ignominy, and beeping a blue streak, began to chase theterrified Ewok in circles. The crowd roared-some cheering on Teebo, somesqueaking encouragement to the deranged droid.
　　Finally Artoo got close enough to Teebo to zing him with an electric charge.The shocked Ewok jumped into the air, squealed raucously, and ran away as fast ashis stubby little legs could carry him. Wicket slipped surreptitiously into the big hut,as the onlookers screeched their indignation or delight.
　　Threepio was incensed. "Artoo, stop that! You're only going to make mattersworse."
　　Artoo scooted over directly in front of the golden droid, and began beeping avehement tirade. "Wreee op doo rhee vrrr gk gdk dk whoo dop dhop vree doodweet´"
　　This outburst miffed Threepio substantially. With a haughty tilt he sat upstraight in his throne. "That's no way to speak to someone in my position."
　　Luke was afraid the situation was well on its way to getting out of control. Hecalled with the barest hint of impatience to his faithful droid. "Threepio, I think it'stime you spoke on our behalf."
　　Threepio-rather ungraciously, actually-turned to the assemblage of fuzzycreatures and made a short speech, pointing from time to time to his friends tied to thestakes.
　　Logray became visibly upset by this. He waved his staff, stamped his feet,shrieked at the golden droid for a full minute. At the conclusion of his statement, henodded to several attentive fellows, who nodded back and began filling the pit underHan with firewood.
　　"Well, what did he say?" Han shouted with some concern.
　　Threepio wilted with chagrin. "I'm rather embarrassed, Captain Solo, but itappears you are to be the main course at a banquet in my honor. He is quiteoffended that I should suggest otherwise."
　　Before another word could be said, log-drums began beating in ominoussyncopation. As one, all the furry heads turned toward the mouth of the large hut.Out of it came Wicket; and behind him, Chief Chirpa.
　　Chirpa was gray of fur, strong of will. On his head he bore a garland woven ofleaves, teeth, and the horns of great animals he'd bested in the hunt. In his righthand he carried a staff fashioned from the longbone of a flying reptile; in his left heheld an iguana, who was his pet and advisor.
　　He surveyed the scene in the square at a glance, then turned to wait for the guestwho was only now emerging from the large hut behind him.
　　The guest was the beautiful young Princess of Alderaan.
　　"Leia!" Luke and Han shouted together.
　　"Rahrhah!"
　　"Boo dEEdwee!"
　　"Your Highness!"
　　With a gasp she rushed toward her friends, but a phalanx of Ewoks blocked herway with spears. She turned to Chief Chirpa, then to her robot interpreter.
　　"Threepio, tell them these are my friends. They must be set free."
　　Threepio looked at Chirpa and Logray. "Eep sqee rheeow," he said with muchcivility. "Sqeeow roah meep meeb eerah."
　　Chirpa and Logray shook their heads with a motion that was unequivocablynegative. Logray chattered an order at his helpers, who resumed vigorously pilingwood under Solo.
　　Han exchanged helpless looks with Leia. "Somehow I have a feeling thatdidn't do us much good."
　　"Luke, what can we do?" Leia urged. She hadn't expected this at all. She'dexpected a guide back to her ship, or at worst a short supper and lodging for the night.She definitely didn't understand these creatures. "Luke?" she questioned.
　　Han was about to offer a suggestion when he paused, briefly taken aback byLeia's sudden intense faith in Luke. It was something he hadn't really noted before;he merely noted it now.
　　Before he could speak up with his plan, though, Luke chimed in. "Threepio,tell them if they don't do as you wish, you'll become angry and use your magic."
　　"But Master Luke, what magic?" the droid protested. "I couldn't-"
　　"Tell them!" Luke ordered, uncharacteristically raising his voice. There weretimes when Threepio could test even the patience of a Jedi.
　　The interpreter-droid turned to the large audience, and spoke with great dignity."Eemeeblee screesh oahr aish sh sheestee meep eep eep."
　　The Ewoks seemed greatly disturbed by this proclamation. They all backed upseveral steps, except for Logray, who took two steps forward. He shouted somethingat Threepio-something that sounded very in the nature of challenge.
　　Luke closed his eyes with absolute concentration. Threepio began rattling on ina terribly unsettled manner, as if he'd been caught falsifying his own program."They don't believe me, Master Luke, just as I told you´"
　　Luke wasn't listening to the droid, though; he was visualizing him. Seeing himsitting shiny and golden on his throne of twigs, nodding this way and that, prattling onabout the most inconsequential of matters, sitting there in the black void of Luke'sconsciousness´and slowly beginning to rise.
　　Slowly, Threepio began to rise.
　　At first, he didn't notice; at first, nobody did. Threepio just went right ontalking, as his entire litter steadily elevated off the ground. "´told you, I told you, Itold you they wouldn't. I don't know why you-wha-wait a minute´what'shappening here?´"
　　Threepio and the Ewoks all realized what was happening at just about the samemoment. The Ewoks silently fell back in terror from the floating throne. Threepionow began to spin, as if he were on a revolving stool. Graceful, majestic spinning.
　　"Help," he whispered. "Artoo, help me."
　　Chief Chirpa shouted orders to his cowering minions. Quickly they ran forwardand released the bound prisoners. Leia, Han, and Luke enfolded each other in a long,powerful embrace. It seemed, to all of them, a strange setting in which to gain thefirst victory of this campaign against the Empire.
　　Luke was aware of a plaintive beeping behind him, and turned to see Artoostaring up at a still-spinning Threepio. Luke lowered the golden droid slowly to theground.
　　"Thanks, Threepio," the young Jedi patted him gratefully on the shoulder.
　　Threepio, still a bit shaken, stood with a wobbly, amazed smile."Why-why-I didn't know I had it in me."
　　The hut of Chief Chirpa was large, by Ewok standards-though Chewbacca,sitting cross-legged, nearly scraped the ceiling with his head. The Wookiee hunchedalong one side of the dwelling with his Rebel comrades, while the Chief and tenElders sat on the other side facing them. In the center, between the two groups, asmall fire warmed the night air, casting ephemeral shadows on the earthen walls.
　　Outside, the entire village awaited the decisions this council would arrive at. Itwas a pensive, clear night, charged with high moment. Though it was quite late, notan Ewok slept.
　　Inside, Threepio was speaking. Positive and negative feedback loops hadalready substantially increased his fluency in this squeaky language; he was now inthe midst of an animated history of the Galactic Civil War-replete with pantomime,elocution, explosive sound effects, and editorial commentary. He even mimicked anImperial walker at one point.
　　The Ewok Elders listened carefully, occasionally murmuring comments to eachother. It was a fascinating story, and they were thoroughly absorbed-at times,horrified; at times, outraged. Logray conferred with Chief Chirpa once or twice, andseveral times asked Threepio questions, to which the golden droid responded quitemovingly-once Artoo even whistled, probably for emphasis.
　　In the end, though, after a rather brief discussion among the Elders, the Chiefshook his head negatively, with an expression of rueful dissatisfaction. He spokefinally to Threepio, and Threepio interpreted for his friends.
　　"Chief Chirpa says it's a very moving story," the droid explained. "But it reallyhas nothing to do with Ewoks."
　　A deep and pressing silence filled the small chamber. Only the fire softlycrackled its bright but darkling soliloquy.
　　It was finally Solo-of all people-who opened his mouth to speak for the group.For the Alliance.
　　"Tell them this, Goldenrod-" he smiled at the droid, with conscious affectionfor the first time. "Tell them it's hard to translate a rebellion, so maybe a translatorshouldn't tell the story. So I'll tell 'em."
　　"They shouldn't help us 'cause we're asking 'em to. They shouldn't even helpus 'cause it's in their own interest to-even though it is, you know-just for oneexample, the Empire's tappin' a lot of energy out of this moon to generate its deflectorshield, and that's a lot of energy you guys are gonna be without come winter, and Imean you're gonna be hurtin'´but never mind that. Tell 'em, Threepio."
　　Threepio told them. Han went on.
　　"But that's not why they should help us. That's why I used to do stuff, becauseit was in my interest. But not anymore. Well, not so much, anyway. Mostly I dothings for my friends, now-'cause what else is so important? Money? Power?Jabba had that, and you know what happened to him. Okay, okay, the point is-yourfriends are´your friends. You know?"
　　This was one of the most inarticulate pleas Leia had ever heard, but it made hereyes fill with tears. The Ewoks, on the other hand, remained silent, impassive.Teebo and the stoic little fellow named Paploo traded a few muttered words; the restwere motionless, their expressions unreadable.
　　After another protracted pause, Luke cleared his throat. "I realize this conceptmay be abstract-may be difficult to draw these connections," he started slowly, "butit's terribly important for the entire galaxy, for our Rebel force to destroy the Imperialpresence here on Endor. Look up, there, through the smoke hole in the roof. Justthrough that tiny hole, you can count a hundred stars. In the whole sky there aremillions, and billions more you can't even see. And they all have planets, andmoons, and happy people just like you. And the Empire is destroying all that. Youcan´you could get dizzy just lying on your back and staring up at all the starshine.You could almost´explode, it's so beautiful sometimes. And you're part of thebeauty, it's all part of the same Force. And the Empire is trying to turn out thelights."
　　It took a while for Threepio to finish translating this-he wanted to get all thewords just right. When he did eventually stop talking, there was an extensivesqueaking among the Elders, rising and falling in volume, ceasing and then resumingagain.
　　Leia knew what Luke was trying to say, but she feared greatly that the Ewokswouldn't see the connection. It was connected intimately, though, if she could onlybridge the gap for them. She thought of her experience in the forest earlier-hersense of oneness with the trees, whose outstretched limbs seemed to touch the verystars; the stars, whose light filtered down like cascading magic. She felt the powerof the magic within her, and it resonated around the hut, from being to being, flowingthrough her again, making her stronger, still; until she felt one with these Ewoks,nearly-felt as if she understood them, knew them; conspired with them, in theprimary sense of the word: they breathed together.
　　The debate wound down, leaving finally another quiet moment in the hut.Leia's respirations quieted, too, in resonance; and with an air of confident serenity,she made her appeal to the council.
　　"Do it because of the trees," she said.
　　That's all she said. Everyone expected more, but there was no more; only thisshort, oblique outburst.
　　Wicket had been observing these proceedings with increasing concern, from thesidelines. On several occasions it was apparent he was restraining himself with greatdifficulty from entering the council's discourse-but now he jumped to his feet, pacedthe width of the hut several times, finally faced the Elders, and began his ownimpassioned speech.
　　"Eep eep, meep eek squee´"
　　Threepio translated for his friends: "Honorable Elders, we have this nightreceived a perilous, wondrous gift. The gift of freedom. This goldengod´"-here Threepio paused in his translation just long enough to savor themoment; then went on-"´This golden god, whose return to us has been prophesiedsince the First Tree, tells us now he will not be our Master, tells us we are free tochoose as we will-that we must choose; as all living things must choose their owndestiny. He has come, Honorable Elders, and he will go; no longer may we be slavesto his diving guidance. We are free.
　　"Yet how must we comport ourselves? Is an Ewok's love of the wood any lessbecause he can leave it? No-his love is more, because he can leave it, yet he stays.So is it with the voice of the Golden One: we can close our eyes; yet we listen.
　　"His friends tell us of a Force, a great living spirit, of which we are all part, evenas the leaves are things separate yet part of the tree. We know this spirit, HonorableElders, though we call it not the Force. The friends of the Golden One tell us thisForce is in great jeopardy, here and everywhere. When the fire reaches the forest,who is safe? Not even the Great Tree of which all things are part; nor its leaves, norits roots, not its birds. All are in peril, forever and ever.
　　"It is a brave thing to confront such a fire. Honorable Elders. Many will die,that the forest lives on.
　　"But the Ewoks are brave."
　　The little bear-creature fixed his gaze on the others in the hut. Not a word wasspoken; nonetheless, the communication was intense. After a minute like this, heconcluded his statement.
　　"Honorable Elders, we must aid this noble party not less for the trees, but morefor the sake of the leaves on the trees. These Rebels are like the Ewoks, who are likethe leaves. Battered by the wind, eaten without thought by the tumult of locusts thatinhabit the world-yet do we throw ourselves on smoldering fires, that another mayknow the warmth of light; yet do we make a soft bed of ourselves, that another mayknow rest; yet do we swirl in the wind that assails us, to send the fear of chaos into thehearts of our enemies; yet do we change color, even as the season calls upon us tochange. So must we help our Leafbrothers, these Rebels-for so has come a seasonof change upon us."
　　He stood, still, before them, the small fire dancing in his eye. For a timelessmoment, all the world seemed still.
　　The Elders were moved. Without saying another word, they nodded inagreement. Perhaps they were telepathic.
　　In any case, Chief Chirpa stood and, without preface, made a briefpronouncement.
　　All at once drums began to beat throughout the entire village. The Eldersjumped up-no longer at all so serious-and ran across the tent to hug the Rebels.Teebo even began to hug Artoo, but thought better of it as the little droid backed offwith a low warning whistle. Teebo scurried over to hop playfully on the Wookiee'sback instead.
　　Han smiled uncertainly. "What's going on?"
　　"I'm not sure," Leia answered out the side of her mouth, "but it doesn't look toobad."
　　Luke, like the others, was sharing the joyous occasion-whatever it meant-witha pleasant smile and diffuse good will, when suddenly a dark cloud filled her heart,hovered there, nestled a clammy chill into the corners of his soul. He wiped itstraces from his visage, made his face a mask. Nobody noticed.
　　Threepio finally nodded his understanding to Wicket, who was explaining thesituation to him. He turned, with an expansive gesture, to the Rebels. "We are nowpart of the tribe."
　　"Just what I've always wanted," said Solo.
　　Threepio continued talking to the others, trying to ignore the sarcastic StarCaptain. "The Chief has vowed to help us in any way to rid their land of the evilones."
　　"Well, short help is better than no help, I always say," Solo chuckled.
　　Threepio was once again rapidly overheating his circuits toward the Corellianingrate. "Teebo says his chief scouts, Wicket and Paploo, will show us the fastestway to the shield generator."
　　"Tell him thanks, Goldenrod." He just loved irking Threepio. He couldn'thelp himself.
　　Chewie let out a righteous bark, happy to be on the move again. One of theEwoks thought he was asking for food, though, and brought the Wookiee a large slabof meat. Chewbacca didn't refuse. He downed the meat in a single gulp, as severalEwoks gathered, watching in amazement. They were so incredulous at this feat, infact, they began giggling furiously; and the laughter was so infectious, it started theWookiee chortling. His gruff guffaws were really hilarious to the chuckling Ewoks,so-as was their custom-they jumped on him in a frenzy of tickling, which hereturned threefold, until they all lay in a puddle, quite exhausted. Chewie wiped hiseyes and grabbed another piece of meat, which he gnawed at a more leisurely pace.
　　Solo, meanwhile, began organizing the expedition. "How far is it? We'll needsome fresh supplies. There's not much time, you know. Give me some of that,Chewie´"
　　Chewie snarled.
　　Luke drifted to the back of the hut and then slipped outside during thecommotion. Out in the square, a great party was going on-dancing, squealing,tickling-but Luke avoided this, too. He wandered away from the bonfires, awayfrom the gaiety, to a secluded walkway on the dark side of a colossal tree.
　　Leia followed him.
　　The sounds of the forest filled the soft night air, here. Crickets, skitteringrodents, desolate breezes, anguished owls. The perfumes were a mixture ofnight-blooming jasmine, and pine; the harmonies were strictly ethereal. The sky wascrystal black.
　　Luke stared at the brightest star in the heavens. It looked to be fired from deepwithin its core by raging elemental vapors. It was the Death Star.
　　He couldn't take his eyes from it. Leia found him like that.
　　"What's wrong?" she whispered.
　　He smiled wearily. "Everything, I'm afraid. Or nothing, maybe. Maybethings are finally going to be as they were meant to be."
　　He felt the presence of Darth Vader very near.
　　Leia took his hand. She felt so close to Luke, yet´she couldn't say how. Heseemed so lost now, so alone. So distant. She almost couldn't felt his hand in hers."What is it, Luke?"
　　He looked down at their intertwined fingers. "Leia´do you remember yourmother? Your real mother?"
　　The question took her totally by surprise. She'd always felt so close to heradopted parents, it was as if they were her real parents. She almost never thought ofher real mother-that was like a dream.
　　Yet now Luke's question made her start. Flashes from her infancy assaultedher-distorted visions of running´a beautiful woman´hiding in a trunk. Thefragments suddenly threatened to flood her with emotion.
　　"Yes," she said, pausing to regain her composure. "Just a little bit. She diedwhen I was very young."
　　"What do you remember?" he pressed. "Tell me."
　　"Just feelings, really´images." She wanted to let it slide, it was so out of theblue, so far from her immediate concerns´but somehow so loud inside, all of asudden.
　　"Tell me," Luke repeated.
　　She felt surprised by his insistence, but decided to follow him with it, at least forthe time being. She trusted him, even when he frightened her. "She was verybeautiful," Leia remembered aloud. "Gentle and kind-but sad." She lookeddeeply into his eyes, seeking his intentions. "Why are you asking me this?"
　　He turned away, peering back up at the Death Star, as if he'd been on the vergeof opening up; then something scared him, and he pulled it all in once more. "I haveno memory of my mother," he claimed. "I never knew her."
　　"Luke, tell me what's troubling you." She wanted to help, she knew she couldhelp.
　　He stared at her a long moment, estimating her abilities, gauging her need toknow, her desire to know. She was strong. He felt it, unwaveringly. He coulddepend on her. They all could. "Vader is here´now. On this moon."
　　She felt a chill, like a physical sensation, as if her blood had actually congealed."How do you know?"
　　"I can feel his presence. He's come for me."
　　"But how could he know we were here? Was it the code, did we leave out somepassword?" She knew it was none of these things.
　　"No, it's me. He can feel it when I'm near." He held her by the shoulders.He wanted to tell her everything, but now as he tried, his will was starting to fail."I must leave you, Leia. As long as I'm here, I endanger the whole group and ourmission here." His hands trembled. "I have to face Vader."
　　Leia was fast becoming distraught, confused. Intimations were rushing at herlike wild owls out of the night, their wings brushing her cheek, their talons catchingher hail, their harsh whispers thrilling her ear: "Who? Who? Who?"
　　She shook her head hard. "I don't understand, Luke. What do you mean, youhave to face Vader?"
　　He pulled her to him, his manner suddenly gentle; abidingly calm. To say it,just to say it, in some basic way released him. "He's my father, Leia."
　　"Your father!?" She couldn't believe it; yet of course it was true.
　　He held her steady, to be a rock for her. "Leia, I've found something else out.It's not going to be easy for you to hear it, but you have to. You have to knownbefore I leave here because I might not be back. And if I don't make it, you're theonly hope for the Alliance."
　　She looked away, she shook her head, she wouldn't look at him. It was terriblydisturbing, what Luke was saying, though she couldn't imagine why. It wasnonsense, of course; that was why. To call her the only hope for the Alliance if heshould die-why, it was absurd. Absurd to think of Luke dying, and to think of herbeing the only hope. Both thoughts were out of the question. She moved away from him, to deny hiswords; at least to give them distance, to let her breathe. Flashes of her mother cameagain, in this breathing space. Parting embraces, flesh torn from flesh´
　　"Don't talk that way, Luke. You have to survive. I do what I can-we alldo-but I'm of no importance. Without you´I can do nothing. It's you, Luke.I've seen it. You have a power I don't understand´and could never have."
　　"You're wrong, Leia." He held her at arm's length. "You have that power, too.The Force is strong in you. In time you'll learn to use it as I have."
　　She shook her head. She couldn't hear this. He was lying. She had nopower, the power was elsewhere, she could only help and succor and support. Whatwas he saying? Was it possible?
　　He brought her closer still, held her face in his hands.
　　He looked so tender now, so giving. Was he giving her the power? Could shetruly hold it? What was he saying? "Luke, what's come over you?"
　　"Leia, the Force is strong in my family. My father has it. I have it, and ´mysister has it."
　　Leia stared full into his eyes again. Darkness whirled there. And truth.What she saw frightened her´but now, this time, she didn't draw away. She stoodclose to him. She started to understand.
　　"Yes," he whispered, seeing her comprehension. "Yes. It's you, Leia." Heheld her in his arms.
　　Leia closed her eyes tightly against his words, against her tears. To no avail.It all washed over her, now, and through her. "I know," she nodded. Openly shewept.
　　"Then you know I must go to him."
　　She stood back, her face hot, her mind swimming in a storm. "No, Luke, no.Run away, far away. If he can feel your presence, go away from this place." Sheheld his hands, put her cheek on his chest. "I wish I could go with you."
　　He stroked the back of her head. "No, you don't. You've never faltered.When Han and I and the others have doubted, you've always been strong. You'venever turned away from your responsibility. I can't say the same." He thought ofhis premature flight from Dagobah, racing to risk everything before his training hadbeen complete, almost destroying everything because of it. He looked down at theblack, mechanical hand he had to show for it. How much more would be lost to hisweakness? "Well," he choked, "now we're both going to fulfill our destinies."
　　"Luke, why? Why must you confront him?"
　　He thought of all the reasons-to win, to lose, to join, to struggle, to kill, to weep,to walk away, to accuse, to ask why, to forgive, to not forgive, to die-but knew, inthe end, there was only one reason, now and always. Only one reason that couldever matter. "There's good in him, I've felt it. He won't give me over to theEmperor. I can save him, I can turn him back to the good side." His eyes becamewild for just a moment, turn by doubts and passions. "I have to try, Leia. He's ourfather."
　　They held each other close. Tears streamed silently down her face.
　　"Goodbye, dear sister-lost, and found. Goodbye, sweet, sweet Leia."
　　She cried openly, now-they both did-as Luke held her away and movedslowly back along the planking. He disappeared into the darkness of the tree-cavethat led out of the village.
　　Leia watched him go, quietly weeping. She gave free vent to her feelings, didnot try to stop the tears-tried, instead, to feel them, to feel the source they came from,the path they took, the murky corners they cleansed.
　　Memories poured through her, now, clues, suspicions, half-heard mutteringswhen they'd thought she was asleep. Luke, her brother! And Vader, her father.This was too much to assimilate all at once, it was information overload.
　　She was crying and trembling and whimpering all at once, when suddenly Hanstepped up and embraced her from behind. He'd gone looking for her, and heard hervoice, and came around just in time to see Luke leaving-but only now, when Leiajumped at his touch and he turned her around, did he realize she was sobbing.
　　His quizzical smile turned to concern, tempered by the heart-fear of the would-belover. "Hey, what's going on here?"
　　She stifled her sobs, wiped her eyes. "It's nothing, Han. I just want to bealone for a while."
　　She was hiding something, that much was plain, and that much was unacceptable."It's not nothing!" he said angrily. "I want to know what's going on. Now you tellme what it is." He shook her. He'd never felt like this before. He wanted toknow, but he didn't want to know what he thought he knew. It made him sick atheart to think of Leia´with Luke´he couldn't even bring himself to imagine what itwas he didn't want to imagine.
　　He'd never been out of control like this, he didn't like it, he couldn't stop it. Herealized he was still shaking her, and stopped.
　　"I can't, Han´" Her lip began to tremble again.
　　"You can't! You can't tell me? I thought we were closer than that, but I guessI was wrong. Maybe you'd rather tell Luke. Sometimes I-"
　　"Oh, Han!" she cried, and burst into tears once more. She buried herself in hisembrace.
　　His anger turned slowly to confusion and dismay, as he found himself wrappinghis arms around her, caressing her shoulders, comforting her. "I'm sorry," hewhispered into her hair. "I'm sorry." He didn't understand, not an iota-didn'tunderstand her, or himself, or his topsy-turvy feelings, or women, or the universe.All he knew was that he'd just been furious, and now he was affectionate, protective,tender. Made no sense.
　　"Please´just hold me," she whispered. She didn't want to talk. She justwanted to be held.
　　He just held her.
　　Morning mist rose off dewy vegetation as the sun broke the horizon over Endor.The lush foliage of the forest's edge had a moist, green odor; in that dawning momentthe world was silent, as if holding its breath.
　　In violent contrast, the Imperial landing platform squatted over the ground.Harsh, metallic, octagonal, it seemed to cut like an insult into the verdant beauty ofthe place. The bushes at its perimeter were singed black from repeated shuttlelandings; the flora beyond that was wilting-dying from refuse disposal, tramplingfeet, chemical exhaust fumes. Like a blight was this outpost.
　　Uniformed troops walked continuously on the platform and in the area-loading,unloading, surveilling, guarding. Imperial walkers were parked off to oneside-square, armored, two-legged war machines, big enough for a squad of soldiersto stand inside, firing laser cannon in all directions. An Imperial shuttle took off forthe Death Star, with a roar that made the trees cringe. Another walker emerged fromthe timber on the far side of the platform, returning from a patrol mission. Step bylumbering step, it approached the loading dock.
　　Darth Vader stood at the rail of the lower deck, staring mutely into the depths ofthe lovely forest. Soon. It was coming soon; he could feel it. Like a drum gettinglouder, his destiny approached. Dread was all around, but fear like this excited him,so he let it bubble quietly within. Dread was a tonic, it heightened his senses, honeda raw edge to his passions. Closer, it came.
　　Victory, too he sensed. Mastery. But laced with something else´what was it?He couldn't see it, quite. Always in motion, the future; difficult to see. Itsapparitions tantalized him, swirling specters, always changing. Smoky was hisfuture, thunderous with conquest and destruction.
　　Very close, now. Almost here.
　　He purred in the pit of his throat, like a wild cat smelling game on the air.
　　Almost here.
　　The Imperial walker docked at the opposite end of the deck, and opened its doors.A phalanx of stormtroopers marched out in tight circular formation. Theylock-stepped toward Vader.
　　He turned around to face the oncoming troopers, his breathing even, his blackrobes hanging still in the windless morning. The stormtroopers stopped when theyreached him, and at a word from their captain, parted to reveal a bound prisoner intheir midst. It was Luke Skywalker.
　　The young Jedi gazed at Vader with complete calm, with many layers of vision.
　　The stormtrooper captain spoke to Lord Vader. "This is the Rebel thatsurrendered to us. Although he denies it, I believe there may be more of them, and Irequest permission to conduct a wider search of the area." He extended his hand tothe Dark Lord; in it, he held Luke's lightsaber. "He was armed only with this."
　　Vader looked at the lightsaber a moment, then slowly took it from the captain'shand. "Leave us. Conduct your search, and bring his companions to me."
　　The officer and his troops withdrew back to the walker.
　　Luke and Vader were left standing along facing each other, in the emeraldtranquillity of the ageless forest. The mist was beginning to burn off. Long dayahead.

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
    

Return of The Jedi
VII

　　"So," the Dark Lord rumbled. "You have come to me."
　　"And you to me."
　　"The Emperor is expecting you. He believes you will turn to the dark side."
　　"I know´Father." It was momentous act for Luke-to address his father, ashis father. But he'd done it, now, and kept himself under control, and the momentwas past. It was done. He felt stronger for it. He felt potent.
　　"So, you have finally accepted the truth," Vader gloated.
　　"I have accepted the truth that you were once Anakin Skywalker, my father."
　　"That name no longer has meaning for me." It was a name long ago. Adifferent life, a different universe. Could he truly once have been that man?
　　"It is the name of your true self," Luke's gaze bore steadily down on the cloakedfigure. "You have only forgotten. I know there is good in you. The Emperorhasn't driven it fully away." He molded with his voice, tried to form the potentialreality with the strength of his belief. "That's why you could not destroy me.That's why you won't take me to your Emperor now."
　　Vader seemed almost to smile through his mask at his son's use of Jedivoice-manipulation. He looked down at the lightsaber the captain had givenhim-Luke's lightsaber. So the boy was truly a Jedi now. A man grown. He heldthe lightsaber up. "You have constructed another."
　　"This one is mine," Luke said quietly. "I no longer use yours."
　　Vader ignited the blade, examined its humming brilliant light, like an admiringcraftsman. "Your skills are complete. Indeed, you are as powerful as the Emperorhas foreseen."
　　They stood there for a moment, the lightsaber between them. Sparks dove inand out of the cutting edge: photons pushed to the brink by the energy pulsingbetween these two warriors.
　　"Come with me, Father."
　　Vader shook his head. "Ben once thought as you do-"
　　"Don't blame Ben for your fall-" Luke took a step closer, then stopped.
　　Vader did not move. "You don't know the power of the dark side. I mustobey my master."
　　"I will not turn-you will be forced to destroy me."
　　"If that is your destiny." This was not his wish, but the boy was strong-if itcame, at last, to blows, yes, he would destroy Luke. He could no long afford to holdback, as he once had.
　　"Search your feelings, Father. You can't do this. I feel the conflict within you.Let go of your hate."
　　But Vader hated no one; he only lusted too blindly. "Someone has filled yourmind with foolish ideas, young one. The Emperor will show you the true nature ofthe Force. He is your master, now."
　　Vader signaled to a squad of distant stormtroopers as he extinguished Luke'slightsaber. The guards approached. Luke and the Dark Lord faced one another fora long, searching moment. Vader spoke just before the guards arrived.
　　"It is too late for me, Son."
　　"Then my father is truly dead," answered Luke. So what was to stop him fromkilling the Evil One who stood before him now? he wondered.
　　Noting, perhaps.
　　The vast Rebel fleet hung poised in space, ready to strike. It was hundreds oflight-years from the Death Star-but in hyperspace, all time was a moment, and thedeadliness of an attack was measured not in distance but in precision.
　　Ships changed in formation from corner to side, creating a faceted diamondshape to the armada-as if, like a cobra, the fleet was spreading its hood.
　　The calculations required to launch such a meticulously coordinated offensive atlightspeed made it necessary to fix on a stationary point-that it, stationary relative tothe point of reentry from hyperspace. The point chosen by the Rebel command wasa small, blue planet of the Sullust system. The armada was positioned around it, now,this unblinking cerulean world. It looked like the eye of the serpent.
　　The Millennium Falcon finished its rounds of the fleet's perimeter, checkingfinal positions, then pulled into place beneath the flagship. The time had come.
　　Lando was at the controls of the Falcon. Beside him, his copilot, NienNunb-a jowled, mouse-eyed creature from Sullust-flipped switches, monitoredreadouts, and made final preparations for the jump to hyperspace.
　　Lando set his comlink to war channel. Last hand of the night, his deal, a tablefull of high rollers-his favorite kind of game. With dry mouth, he made hissummary report to Ackbar of the command ship. "Admiral, we're in position. Allfighters are accounted for."
　　Ackbar's voice crackled back over the headset. "Proceed with the countdown.All groups assume attack coordinates."
　　Lando turned to his copilot with a quick smile. "Don't worry, my friends aredown there, they'll have that shield down on time´" He turned back to hisinstruments, saying under his breath: "Or this will be the shortest offensive of alltime."
　　"Gzhung Zhgodio," the copilot commented.
　　"All right," Lando grunted. "Stand by, then." He patted the control panel forgood luck, even though his deepest belief was that a good gambler made his own luck.Still, that's what Han's job was this time, and Han had almost never let Lando down.Just once-and that was a long time ago, in a star system far, far away.
　　This time was different. This time they were going to redefine luck, and call itLando. He smiled, and patted the panel one more time´just right.
　　Up on the bridge of the Star Cruiser command ship, Ackbar paused, lookedaround at his generals: all was ready.
　　"Are all groups in their attack coordinates?" he asked. He knew they were.
　　"Affirmative, Admiral."
　　Ackbar gazed out his view-window meditatively at the starfield, for perhaps thelast reflective moment he would ever have. He spoke finally into the comlink warchannel. "All craft will begin the jump to hyperspace on my mark. May the Forcebe with us."
　　He reached forward to the signal button.
　　In the Falcon, Lando stared at the identical galactic with foreboding. Theywere doing what a guerrilla force must never do: engage the enemy like a traditionalarmy. The Imperial army, fighting the Rebellion's guerrilla war, was alwayslosing-unless it won. The Rebels, by contrast, were always winning-unless theylost. And now, here was the most dangerous situation-the Alliance drawn into theopen, to fight on the Empire's terms: if the Rebels lost this battle, they lost the war.
　　Suddenly the signal light flashed on the control panel: Ackbar's mark. Theattack was commenced.
　　Lando pulled back the conversion switch and opened up the throttle. Outsidethe cockpit, the stars began streaking by. The streaks grew brighter, and longer, asthe ships of the fleet roared, in large segments, at lightspeed, keeping pace first withthe very photons of the radiant stars in the vicinity, and then soaring through the warpinto hyperspace itself-and disappearing the flash of a muon.
　　The blue crystal planet hovered in space alone, once again; staring, unseeing,into the void.
　　The strike squad crouched behind a woodsy ridge overlooking the Imperialoutpost. Leia viewed the area through a small electronic scanner.
　　Two shuttles were being off-loaded on the landing platform docking ramp.Several walkers were parked nearby. Troops stood around, helped with construction.Took watch, carried supplies. The massive shield generator hummed off to the side.
　　Flattened down in the bushes on the ridge with the strike force were severalEwoks, including Wicket, Paploo, Teebo, and Warwick. The rest stayed lower,behind the knoll, out of sight.
　　Leia put down the scanner and scuttled back to the others. "The entrance is onthe far side of that landing platform. This isn't going to be easy."
　　"Ahrck grah rahr hrowrowhr," Chewbacca agreed.
　　"Oh, come on, Chewie," Han gave the Wookiee a pained look. "We've gotteninto more heavily guarded places than that-"
　　"Frowh rahgh rahrahraff vrawgh gr," Chewie countered with a dismissinggesture.
　　Han thought of a second. "Well, the spice vaults of Gargon, for one."
　　"Of course I'm right-now if I could just remember how I did it´" Hanscratched his head, poking his memory.
　　Suddenly Paploo began chattering away, pointing, squealing. He garbledsomething to Wicket.
　　"What's he saying, Threepio?" Leia asked.
　　The golden droid exchanged a few terse sentences with Paploo; then Wicketturned to Leia with a hopeful grin.
　　Threepio, too, now looked at the Princess. "Apparently Wicket know about aback entrance to this installation."
　　Han perked up at that. "A back door? That's it! That's how we did it!"
　　Four Imperial scouts kept watch over the entrance to the bunker thathalf-emerged from the earth far to the rear of the main section of the shield generatorcomplex. Their rocket bikes were parked nearby.
　　In the undergrowth beyond, the Rebel strike squad lay in wait.
　　"Grrr, rowf rrrhl brhnnn," Chewbacca observed slowly.
　　"You're right, Chewie," Solo agreed, "with just those guards this should byeasier than breaking a Bantha."
　　"It only takes one to sound the alarm," Leia cautioned.
　　Han grinned, a bit overselfconfidently. "Then we'll have to do this realquietlike. If Luke can just keep Vader off our backs, like you said he said he would,this oughta be no sweat. Just gotta hit those guards fast and quiet´"
　　Threepio whispered to Teebo and Paploo, explaining the problem and theobjective. The Ewoks babbled giddily a moment, then Paploo jumped up and racedthrough the underbrush.
　　Leia checked the instrument on her wrist. "We're running out of time. Thefleet's in hyperspace by now."
　　Threepio muttered a question to Teebo and received a short reply. "Oh, dear,"Threepio replied, starting to rise, to look into the clearing beside the bunker.
　　"Stay down!" rasped Solo.
　　"What is it, Threepio?" Leia demanded.
　　"I'm afraid our furry companion has gone and done something rush." Thedroid hoped he wasn't to be blamed for this.
　　"What are you talking about?" Leia's voice cut with an edge of fear.
　　"Oh, no. Look."
　　Paploo had scampered down through the bushes to where the scouts' bikes wereparked. Now, with the sickening horror of inevitability, the Rebel leaders watchedthe little ball of fur swing his pudgy body up onto one of the bikes, and begin flippingswitches at random. Before anyone could do anything, the bike's engines ignitedwith a rumbling roar. The four scouts looked over in surprise. Paploo grinnedmadly, and continued flipping switches.
　　Leia held her forehead. "Oh, no, no, no."
　　Chewie barked. Han nodded. "So much for our surprise attack."
　　The Imperial scouts raced toward Paploo just as the forward drive engaged,zooming the little teddy bear into the forest. He had all he could do just to hang onto the handlebar with his stubby paws. Three of the guards jumped on their ownbikes, and sped off in pursuit of the hotrod Ewok. The fourth scout stayed at his post,near the door of the bunker.
　　Leia was delighted, if a bit incredulous.
　　"Not bad for a ball of fuzz," Han admired. He nodded at Chewie, and the twoof them slipped down toward the bunker.
　　Paploo, meanwhile, was sailing through the trees, more lucky than in control.He was going at fairly low velocity for what the bike could do-but in Ewok-time,Paploo was absolutely dizzy with speed and excitement. It was terrifying; but heloved it. He could talk about this ride until the end of his life, and then his childrenwould tell their children, and it would get faster with each generation.
　　For now, though, the Imperial scouts were already pulling in sight behind him.When, a moment later, they began firing laser bolts at him, he decided he'd finallyhad enough. As he rounded the next tree, just out of their sight, he grabbed a vineand swung up into the branches. Several seconds later the three scouts tore byunderneath him, pressing their pursuit to the limit. He giggled furiously.
　　Back at the bunker, the laser scout was undone. Subdued by Chewbacca, bound,stripped of his suit, he was being carried into the woods now by two other members ofthe strike team. The rest of the squad silently crouched, forming a perimeter aroundthe entrance.
　　Han stood at the door, checking the stolen code against the digits on the bunker'scontrol panel. With natural speed he punched a series of buttons on the panel.Silently, the door opened.
　　Leia peeked inside. No sigh of life. She motioned the others, and entered thebunker. Han and Chewie followed close on her heels. Soon the entire team washuddled inside the otherwise empty steel corridor, leaving one lookout outside,dressed in the unconscious scout's uniform. Han pushed a series of buttons on theinner panel, closing the door behind them.
　　Leia thought briefly of Luke-she hoped he could detain Vader at least longenough to allow her to destroy this shield generator; she hoped even more dearly hecould avoid such a confrontation altogether. For she feared Vader was the strongerof the two.
　　Furtively she led the way down the dark and low-beamed tunnel.
　　Vader's shuttle settled onto the docking bay of the Death Star, like a black,wingless carrion-eating bird; like a nightmare insect. Luke and the Dark Lordemerged from the snout of the beast with a small escort of stormtroopers, and walkedrapidly across the cavernous main bay to the Emperor's tower elevator.
　　Royal guards awaited them there, flanking the shaft, bathed in a carmine glow.They opened the elevator door. Luke stepped forward.
　　His mind was buzzing with what to do. It was the Emperor he was being takento, now. The Emperor! If Luke could but focus, keep his mind clear to see whatmust be done-and do it.
　　A great noise filled his head, though, like an underground wind.
　　He hoped Leia deactivated the deflector shield quickly, and destroyed the DeathStar-now, while all three of them were here. Before anything else happened. Forthe closer Luke came to the Emperor, the more anything he feared would happen. Ablack storm raged inside him. He wanted to kill the Emperor, but then what?Confront Vader? What would his father do? And what if Luke faced his father first,faced him and-destroyed him. The thought was at once repugnant and compelling.Destroy Vader-and then what. For the first time, Luke had a brief murky image ofhimself, standing on his father's body, holding his father's blazing power, and sittingat the Emperor's right hand.
　　He squeezed his eyes shut against this thought, but it left a cold sweat on hisbrow, as if Death's hand had brushed him there and left its shallow imprint.
　　The elevator door opened. Luke and Vader walked out into the throne roomalone, across the unlit antechamber, up the grated stairs, to stand before the throne:father and son, side by side, both dressed in black, one masked and one exposed,beneath the gaze of the malignant Emperor.
　　Vader bowed to his master. The Emperor motioned him to rise, though; theDark Lord did his master's bidding.
　　"Welcome, young Skywalker," the Evil One smiled graciously. "I have beenexpecting you."
　　Luke stared back brazenly at the bent, hooded figure. Defiantly. TheEmperor's smile grew even softer, though; even more fatherly. He looked at Luke'smanacles.
　　"You no longer need these," he added with noblesse oblige-and made theslightest motion with his finger in the direction of Luke's wrists. At that, Luke'sbinders simply fell away, clattering noisily to the floor.
　　Luke looked at his own hands-free, now, to reach out for the Emperor's throat,to crush his windpipe in an instant´
　　Yet the Emperor seemed gentle. Had he not just let Luke free? But he wasdevious, too, Luke knew. Do not be fooled by appearances, Ben had told him. TheEmperor was unarmed. He could still strike. But wasn't aggression part of thedark side? Mustn't he avoid that at all costs? Or could he use darkness judiciously,and then put it away? He stared at his free hands´he could have ended it all rightthere-or could he? He had total freedom to choose what to do now; yet he couldnot choose. Choice, the double-edged sword. He could kill the Emperor, he couldsuccumb to the Emperor's arguments. He could kill Vader´and then he could evenbecome Vader. Again this thought laughed at him like a broken clown, until hepushed it back into a black corner of his brain.
　　The Emperor sat before him, smiling. The moment was convulsive withpossibilities´
　　The moment passed. He did nothing.
　　"Tell me, young Skywalker," the Emperor said when he saw Luke's first strugglehad taken its course. "Who has been involved in your training until now?" Thesmile was thin, open-mouthed, hollow.
　　Luke was silent. He would reveal nothing.
　　"Oh, I know it was Obi-wan Kenobi at first," the wicked ruler continued, rubbinghis fingers together as if trying to remember. Then pausing, his lips creased into asneer. "Of course, we are familiar with the talent Obi-wan Kenobi had, when itcame to training Jedi." He nodded politely in Vader's direction, indicatingObi-wan's previous star pupil. Vader stood without responding, without moving.
　　Luke tensed with fury at the Emperor's defamation of Ben-though, of course,to the Emperor it was praise. And he bridled even more, knowing the Emperor wasso nearly right. He tried to bring his anger under control, though, for it seemed toplease the malevolent dictator greatly.
　　Palpatine noted the emotions on Luke's face and chuckled. "So, in your earlytraining you have followed your father's path, it would seem. But alas, Obi-wan isnow dead, I believe; his elder student, here, saw to that-" again, he made a handmotion toward Vader. "So tell me, young Skywalker-who continued yourtraining?"
　　That smile, again, like a knife. Luke held silent, struggling to regain hiscomposure.
　　The Emperor tapped his fingers on the arm of the throne, recalling. "There wasone called´Yoda. An aged Master Jedi´Ah, I see by your countenance I have hit achord, a resonant chord indeed. Yoda, then."
　　Luke flashed with anger at himself, now, to have revealed so much, unwillingly,unwittingly. Anger and self-doubt. He strove to calm himself-to see all, to shownothing; only to be.
　　"This Yoda," the Emperor mused. "Lives he still?"
　　Luke focused on the emptiness of space beyond the window behind theEmperor's chair. The deep void, where nothing was. Nothing. He filled his mindwith this black nothing. Opaque, save for the occasional flickering of starlight thatfiltered through the ether.
　　"Ah," cried Emperor Palpatine. "He lives not. Very good, young Skywalker,you almost hid this from me. But you could not. And you can not. Your deepestflickerings are to me apparent. Your nakedest soul. That is my first lesson to you."He beamed.
　　Luke wilted-but a moment. In the very faltering, he found strength. Thushad Ben and Yoda both instructed him: when you are attacked, fall. Let youropponent's power buffet you as strong wind topples the grass. In time, he willexpend himself, and you will still be upright.
　　The Emperor watched Luke's face with cunning. "I'm sure Yoda taught you touse the Force with great skill."
　　The taunt had its desired effect-Luke's face flushed, his muscles flexed.
　　He saw the Emperor actually lick his lips at the sight of Luke's reaction. Lickhis lips and laugh from the bottom of his throat, the bottom of his soul.
　　Luke paused, for he saw something else, as well; something he hadn't seenbefore in the Emperor. Fear.
　　Luke saw fear in the Emperor-fear of Luke. Fear of Luke's power, fear thatthis power could be turned on him-on the Emperor-in the same way Vader hadturned it on Obi-wan Kenobi. Luke saw this fear in the Emperor-and he knew, now,the odds had shifted slightly. He had glimpsed the Emperor's nakedest self.
　　With sudden absolute calm, Luke stood upright. He stared directly intc themalign ruler's hood.
　　Palpatine said nothing for a few moments, returning the young Jedi's gaze,assessing his strengths and weaknesses. He sat back at last, pleased with this firstconfrontation. "I look forward to completing your training, young Skywalker. Intime, you will call me Master."
　　For the first time, Luke felt steady enough to speak. "You're gravely mistaken.You will not convert me as you did my father."
　　"No, my young Jedi," the Emperor leaned forward, gloating, "you will find thatit is you who are mistaken´about a great many things."
　　Palpatine suddenly stood, came down from his throne, walked up very close toLuke, stared venomously into the boy's eyes. At last, Luke saw the entire facewithin the hood: eyes, sunken like tombs; the flesh decayed beneath skin weatheredby virulent storms, lined by holocaust; the grin, a death's-grin; the breath, corrupt.
　　Vader extended a gloved hand toward the Emperor, holding out Luke's lightsaber.The Emperor took it with a slow sort of glee, then walked with it across the room tothe huge circular view-window. The Death Star had been revolving slowly, so theSanctuary Moon was now visible at the window's curving margin.
　　Palpatine looked at Endor, then back at the lightsaber in his hand. "Ah, yes, aJedi's weapon. Much like your father's." He faced Luke directly. "By now youmust know your father can never be turned from the dark side. So will it be withyou."
　　"Never. Soon I will die, and you with me." Luke was confident of that now.He allowed himself the luxury of a boast.
　　The Emperor laughed, a vile laugh. "Perhaps you refer to the imminent attackof your Rebel fleet." Luke had a thick, reeling moment, then steadied himself. TheEmperor went on. "I assure you, we are quite safe from your friends here."
　　Vader walked toward the Emperor, stood at his side, looking at Luke.
　　Luke felt increasingly raw. "Your overconfidence is your weakness," hechallenged them.
　　"Your faith in your friends is yours." The Emperor began smiling; but then hismouth turned down, his voice grew angry. "Everything that has transpired has doneso according to my design. Your friends up there on the Sanctuary Moon-they'rewalking into a trap. And so is your Rebel fleet!"
　　Luke's face twitched visibly. The Emperor saw this, and really began to foam."It was I who allowed the Alliance to know the location of the shield generator. It isquite safe from your pitiful little band-an entire legion of my troops awaits themthere.
　　Luke's eyes darted from the Emperor, to Vader, and finally to the lightsaber inthe Emperor's hand. His mind quivered with alternatives; suddenly everything wasout of control again. He could count on nothing but himself. And on himself, hishold was tenuous.
　　The Emperor kept rattling on imperiously. "I'm afraid the deflector shield willbe quite operational when your fleet arrives. And that is only the beginning of mysurprise-but of course I don't wish to spoil it for you."
　　The situation was degenerating fast, from Luke's perspective. Defeat afterdefeat was being piled on his head. How much could he take? And now anothersurprise coming? There seemed to be no end to the rank deeds Palpatine could carryout against the galaxy. Slowly, infinitesimally, Luke raised his hand in the directionof the lightsaber.
　　The Emperor continued. "From here, young Skywalker, you will witness thefinal destruction of the Alliance-and the end of your insignificant rebellion."
　　Luke was in torment. He raised his hand further. He realized both Palpatineand Vader were watching him. He lowered his hand, lowered his level of anger,tried to restore his previous calm, to find his center to see what it was he needed to do.
　　The Emperor smiled, a thin dry smile. He offered the lightsaber to Luke."You want this, don't you? The hate is swelling in you, now. Very good, take yourJedi weapon. Use it. I am unarmed. Strike me down with it. Give in your anger.With each passing moment you make yourself more my servant."
　　His rasping laughter echoed off the walls like desert wind. Vader continuedstaring at Luke.
　　Luke tried to hide his agony. "No, never." He thought desperately of Ben andYoda. They were part of the Force, now, part of the energy that shaped it. Was itpossible for them to distort the Emperor's vision by their presence? No one wasinfallible, Ben had told him-surely the Emperor couldn't see everything, couldn'tknow every future, twist every reality to suit his gluttony. Ben, thought Luke, if everI needed your guidance, it is now. Where can I take this, that it will not lead me toruin?
　　As if in answer, the Emperor leered, and put the lightsaber down on the controlchair near Luke's hand. "It is unavoidable," the Emperor said quietly. "It is yourdestiny. You, like your father, are now´mine."
　　Luke had never felt so lost.
　　Han, Chewie, Leia, and a dozen commandos made their way down thelabyrinthine corridors toward the area where the shield generator room was marked onthe stolen map. Yellow lights illuminated the low rafters, casting long shadows ateach intersection. At the first three turnings, all remained quiet; they saw no guardor worker.
　　At the fourth cross-corridor, six Imperial stormtroopers stood a wary watch.
　　There was no way around; the section had to be traversed. Han and Leia lookedat each other and shrugged; there was nothing for it but to fight.
　　With pistols drawn, they barged into the entryway. Almost as if they'd beenexpecting an attack, the guards instantly crouched and began firing their own weapons.A barrage of laserbolts followed, ricocheting from girder to floor. Twostormtroopers were hit immediately. A third lost his gun; pinned behind arefrigerator console, he was unable to do much but stay low.
　　Two more stood behind a fire door, though, and blasted each commando whotried to get through. Four went down. The guards were virtually impregnablebehind their vulcanized shield-but virtually didn't account for Wookiees.
　　Chewbacca rushed the door, physically dislodging it on top of the twostormtroopers. They were crushed.
　　Leia shot the sixth guard as he stood to draw a bead on Chewie. The trooperwho'd been crouching beneath the refrigeration unit suddenly bolted, to go for help.Han raced after him a few long strides and brought him down with a flying tackle.He was out cold.
　　They checked themselves over, accounted for casualties. Not too bad-but ithad been noisy. They'd have to hurry now, before a general alarm was set. Thepower center that controlled the shield generator was very near. And there would beno second chances.
　　The Rebel fleet broke out of hyperspace with an awesome roar. Amidglistening streamers of light, battalion after battalion emerged in formation, to fire offtoward the Death Star and its Sanctuary Moon hovering brightly in the close distance.Soon the entire navy was bearing down on its target, the Millennium Falcon in thelead.
　　Lando was worried from the moment they came out of hyperspace. He checkedhis screen, reversed polarities, queried the computer.
　　The copilot was perplexed, as well. "Zhnh ahzi gngnohzh. Dzhy lyhz!"
　　"But how could that be?" Lando demanded. "We've got to be able to get somekind of reading on the shield, up or down." Who was conning whom on this raid?"
　　Nien Nunb pointed at the control panel, shaking his head. "Dzhmbd."
　　"Jammed? How could they be jamming us if they don't knowwe're´coming."
　　He grimaced at the onrushing Death Star, as the implications of what he'd justsaid sank in. This was not a surprise attack, after all. It was a spider web.
　　He hit the switch on his comlink. "Break off the attack! The shield's still up!"
　　Red Leader's voice shouted back over the headphones. "I get no reading, areyou sure?"
　　"Pull up!" Lando commanded. "All craft pull up!"
　　He banked hard to the left, the fighters of the Red Squad veering close on his tail.
　　Some didn't make it. Three flanking X-wings nicked the invisible deflectorshield, spinning out of control, exploding in flames along the shield surface. Noneof the others paused to look back.
　　On the Rebel Star Cruiser bridge, alarms were screaming, light flashing, klaxonsblaring, as the mammoth space cruiser abruptly altered its momentum, trying tochange course in time to avoid collision with the shield. Officers were running frombattle stations to navigation controls; other ships in the fleet could be seen through theview-screens, careening wildly in a hundred directions, some slowing, some speedingup.
　　Admiral Ackbar spoke urgently but quietly into the comlink. "Take evasiveaction. Green Group steer course for Holding Sector. MG-7 Blue Group-"
　　A Mon Calamari controller, across the bridge, called out to Ackbar with graveexcitement. "Admiral, we have enemy ships at Sector RT-23 and PB-4."
　　The large central view-screen was coming alive. It was no longer just theDeath Star and the green moon behind it, gloating isolated in space. Now themassive Imperial fleet could be seen flying in perfect, regimental formation, out frombehind Endor in two behemoth flanking waves-heading to surround the Rebel fleetfrom both sides, like the pincers of a deadly scorpion.
　　And the shield barricaded the Alliance in front. They had nowhere to go.
　　Ackbar spoke desperately into the comlink. "It's a trap. Prepare for attack."
　　An anonymous fighter pilot's voice came back over the radio. "Fighterscoming in! Here we go!"
　　The attack began. The battle was joined.
　　TIE fighters, first-they were much faster than the bulky Imperial cruisers, sothey were the first to make contact with the Rebel invaders. Savage dogfightsensued, and soon the black sky was aglow with ruby explosions.
　　An aide approached Ackbar. "We've added power to the forward shield,Admiral."
　　"Good. Double power on the main battery, and-"
　　Suddenly the Star Cruiser was rocked by thermonuclear fireworks outside theobservation window.
　　"Gold Wing is hit hard!" another officer shouted, stumbling up to the bridge.
　　"Give them cover!" Ackbar ordered. "We must have time!" He spoke againinto the comlink, as yet another detonation rumbled the frigate. "All ships, standyour position. Wait for my command to return!"
　　It was far too late for Lando and his attack squadrons to heed that order, though.They were already way ahead of the pack, heading straight for the oncoming Imperialfleet.
　　Wedge Antilles, Luke's old buddy from the first campaign, let the X-wings thataccompanied the Falcon. As they drew near the Imperial defenders, his voice cameover the comlink, calm and experienced. "Lock X-foils in attack positions."
　　The wings split like dragonfly gossamers, poised for increased maneuvering andpower.
　　"All wings report in," said Lando.
　　"Red Leader standing by," Wedge replied.
　　"Green Leader standing by."
　　"Blue Leader standing by."
　　"Gray Leader-"
　　This last transmission was interrupted by a display of pyrotechnics thatcompletely disintegrated Gray Wing.
　　"Here they come," Wedge commented.
　　"Accelerate to attack speed," Lando ordered. "Draw fire away from ourcruisers as long as possible."
　　"Copy, Gold Leader," Wedge responded. "We're moving to point three acrossthe axis-"
　　"Two of them coming in at twenty degrees-" someone advised.
　　"I see them," noted Wedge. "Cut left, I'll take the leader."
　　"Watch yourself, Wedge, three from above."
　　"Yeah, I-"
　　"I'm on it, Red Leader."
　　"There's too many of them-"
　　"You're taking a lot of fire, back off-"
　　"Red Four, watch out!"
　　"I'm hit!"
　　The X-wing spun, sparking, across the starfield, out of power, into the void.
　　"You've picked one up, watch it!" Red Six yelled at Wedge.
　　"My scope's negative, where is he?"
　　"Red Six, a squadron of fighters has broken through-"
　　"They're heading for the Medical Frigate! After them!"
　　"Go ahead," Lando agreed. "I'm going in. There're four marks at point threefive. Cover me!"
　　"Right behind you, Gold Leader. Red Two, Red Three, pull in-"
　　"Hang on, back there."
　　"Close up formations, Blue Group."
　　"Good shooting, Red Two."
　　"Not bad," said Lando. "I'll take out the other three´"
　　Calrissian steered the Falcon into the complete flip, as his crew fired at theImperial fighters from the belly guns. Two were direct hits, the third a glancingblow that caused the TIE fighter to tumble into another of its own squads. Theheavens were absolutely thick with them, but the Falcon was faster by half thananything else that flew.
　　Within a matter of minutes, the battlefield was a diffuse red glow, spotted withpuffs of smoke, blazing fireballs, whirling spark showers, spinning debris, rumblingimplosions, shafts of light, tumbling machinery, space-frozen corpses, wells ofblackness, electron storms.
　　It was a grim and dazzling spectacle. And only beginning.
　　Nien Nunb made a guttural aside to Lando.
　　"You're right," the pilot frowned. "Only their fighters are attacking. What arethose Star Destroyers waiting for?" Looked like the Emperor was trying to get theRebels to buy some real estate he wasn't intending to sell.
　　"Dzhng zhng," the copilot warned, as another squadron of TIE fighters swoopeddown from above.
　　"I see 'em. We're sure in the middle of it, now." He took a second to glanceat Endor, floating peacefully off to his right. "Come on, Han old buddy, don't let medown."
　　Han pressed the button on his wrist-unit and covered his head: the reinforceddoor to the main control room blew into melted pieces. The Rebel squad stormedthrough the gaping portal.
　　The stormtroopers inside seemed taken completely by surprise. A few wereinjured by the exploding door; the rest gawked in dismay as the Rebels rushed themwith guns drawn. Han took the lead, Leia right behind; Chewie covered the rear.
　　They herded all the personnel into one corner of the bunker. Three commandosguarded them there, three more covered the exits. The rest began placing theexplosive charges.
　　Leia studied one of the screens on the control panel. "Hurry, Han, look! Thefleet's being attacked!"
　　Solo looked over at the screen. "Blast it! With the shield still up, they'rebacked against the wall."
　　"That is correct," came a voice from the rear of the room. "Just as you are."
　　Han and Leia spun around to find dozens of Imperial guns trained on them; anentire legion had been hiding in the wall compartments of the bunker. Now, in asingle moment, the Rebels were surrounded-nowhere to run, far too manystormtroopers to fight. Completely surrounded.
　　More Imperial troops charged through the door, roughly disarming the stunnedcommandos.
　　Han, Chewie, and Leia exchanged helpless, hopeless looks. They'd been theRebellion's last chance.
　　They'd failed.
　　Some distance from the main area of battle, coasting safely in the center of theblanket of ships that constituted the Imperial fleet, was the flagship Super StarDestroyer. On the bridge, Admiral Piett watched the war through the enormousobservation window-curious, as if viewing an elaborate demonstration, or anentertainment.
　　Two fleet captains stood behind him, respectfully silent; also learning the elegantdesigns of their Emperor.
　　"Have the fleet hold here," Admiral Piett ordered.
　　The first captain hurried to carry out the order. The second stepped up to thewindow, beside the admiral. "We aren't going to attack?"
　　Piett smirked. "I have my orders from the Emperor himself. He hassomething special planned for this Rebel scum." He accented the specialness with along pause, for the inquisitive captain to savor. "We are only to keep them fromescaping."
　　The Emperor, Lord Vader, and Luke watched the aerial battle rage from thesafety of the throne room in the Death Star.
　　It was a scene of pandemonium. Silent, crystalline explosions surrounded bygreen, violet, or magenta auras. Wildly vicious dogfights. Gracefully floatingcrags of melted steel; icicle sprays that might have been blood.
　　Luke watched in horror, as another Rebel ship toppled against the unseeabledeflector shield, exploding in a fiery concussion.
　　Vader watched Luke. His boy was powerful, stronger than he'd imagined.And still pliable. Not lost yet-either to the sickening, weakly side of the Force, thathad to beg for everything it received; or to the Emperor, who feared Luke with reason.
　　There was yet time to take Luke for his own-to retake him. To join with himin dark majesty. To rule the galaxy together. It would only take patience and alittle wizardry, to show Luke the exquisite satisfactions of the dark way and to pryhim from the Emperor's terrified clutch.
　　Vader knew Luke had seen it, too-the Emperor's fear. He was a clever boy,young Luke, Vader smiled grimly to himself. He was his father's son.
　　The Emperor interrupted Vader's contemplation with a cackled remark to Luke."As you can see, my young apprentice, the deflector shield is still in place. Yourfriends have failed! And now´" he raised his spindly hand above his head to markthis moment: "Witness the power of this fully armed and operational battle station."He walked over to the comlink and spoke in a gravelly whisper, as if to a lover."Fire at will, Commander."
　　In shock, and in foreknowledge, Luke looked out across the surface of the DeathStar, to the space battle beyond and to the bulk of the Rebel fleet beyond that.
　　Down in the bowels of the Death Star, Commander Jerjerrod gave an order. Itwas with mixed feelings that he issued the command, because it meant the finaldestruction of the Rebel insurrectionists-which meant an end to the state of war,which Jerjerrod cherished above all things. But second to ongoing war itselfJerjerrod loved total annihilation; so while tempered with regret, this order was notentirely without thrill.
　　At Jerjerrod's instruction, a controller pulled a switch, which ignited a blinkingpanel. Two hooded Imperial soldiers pushed a series of buttons. A thick beam oflight slowly pulsed from a long, heavily blockaded shaft. On the outer surface of thecompleted half of the Death Star, a giant laser dish began to glow.
　　Luke watched in impotent horror, as the unbelievably huge laser beam radiatedout from the muzzle of the Death Star. It touched-for only an instant-one of theRebel Star Cruisers that was surging in the midst of the heaviest fighting. And in thenext instant, the Star Cruiser was vaporized. Blown to dust. Returned to its mostelemental particles, in a single burst of light.
　　In the numbing grip of despair, with the hollowest of voids devouring his heart,Luke's eyes, alone, glinted-for he saw, again, his lightsaber, lying unattended on thethrone. And in this bleak and livid moment, the dark side was much with him.

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
    

Return of The Jedi
VIII

　　Admiral Ackbar stood on the bridge in stunned disbelief, looking out the observationwindow at the place where, a moment before, the Rebel Star Cruiser Liberty had justbeen engaged in a furious long-range battle. Now, there was nothing. Only emptyspace powdered with a fine dust that sparkled in the light of more distant explosions.Ackbar stared in silence.
　　Around him, confusion was rampant. Flustered controllers were still trying tocontact the Liberty, while fleet captains ran from screen to port, shouting, directing,misdirecting.
　　An aide handed Ackbar the comlink. General Calrissian's voice was comingthrough.
　　"Home-one, this is Gold Leader. That blast came from the Death Star! Repeat,the Death Star is operational!"
　　"We saw it," Ackbar answered wearily. "All craft prepare to retreat."
　　"I'm not going to give up and run!" Lando shouted back. He'd come a longway to be in this game.
　　"We have no choice, General Calrissian. Our cruisers can't repel firepower ofthat magnitude!"
　　"You won't get a second chance at this, Admiral. Han will have that shielddown-we've got to give him more time. Head for those Star Destroyers."
　　Ackbar looked around him. A huge charge of flak rumbled the ship, painting abrief, waxen light over the window. Calrissian was right: there would be no secondchance. It was now, or it was the end.
　　He turned to his First Star captain. "Move the fleet forward."
　　"Yes, sir." The man paused. "Sir, we don't stand much of a chance againstthose Star Destroyers. They out-gun us, and they're more heavily armored."
　　"I know," Ackbar said softly.
　　The captain left. An aide approached.
　　"Forward ships have made contact with the Imperial fleet, sir."
　　"Concentrate your fire on their power generators. If we can knock out theirshields, our fighters might stand a chance against them."
　　The ship was rocked by another explosion-a laserbolt hit to one of the aftgyrostabilizers.
　　"Intensify auxiliary shields!" someone yelled.
　　The pitch of the battle augmented another notch.
　　Beyond the window of the throne room, the Rebel fleet was being decimated inthe soundless vacuum of space, while inside, the only sound was the Emperor'sthready cackle. Luke continued his spiral into desperation as the Death Star laserbeam incinerated ship after ship.
　　The Emperor hissed. "Your fleet is lost-and your friends on the Endor Moonwill not survive´" He pushed a comlink button on the arm of his throne and spokeinto it with relish. "Commander Jerjerrod, should the Rebel manage to blow up theshield generator, you will turned this battle station onto the Endor Moon and destroyit."
　　"Yes, Your Highness," came the voice over the receiver, "but we have severalbattalions stationed on-"
　　"You will destroy it!" the Emperor's whisper was more final than any scream.
　　"Yes, Your Highness."
　　Palpatine turned back to Luke-the former, shaking with glee; the latter, withoutrage.
　　"There is no escape, my young pupil. The Alliance will die-as will yourfriends."
　　Luke's face was contorted, reflecting his spirit. Vader watched him carefully, asdid the Emperor. The lightsaber began to shake on its resting place. The youngJedi's hand was trembling, his lips pulled back in grimace, his teeth grinding.
　　The Emperor smiled. "Good. I can feel your anger. I am defenseless-takeyour weapon. Strike me down with all of your hatred, and your journey toward thedark side will be complete." He laughed, and laughed.
　　Luke was able to resist no longer. The lightsaber rattled violently on the thronea moment, then flew into his hand, impelled by the Force. He ignited it a momentlater and swung it with his full weight downward toward the Emperor's skull.
　　In that instant, Vader's blade flashed into view, parrying Luke's attack an inchabove the Emperor's head. Sparks flew like forging steel, bathing Palpatine'sgrinning face in a hellish glare.
　　Luke jumped back, and turned, lightsaber upraised, to face his father. Vaderextended his own blade, poised to do battle.
　　The Emperor sighed with pleasure and sat in his throne, facing thecombatants-the sole audience to this dire, aggrieved contest.
　　Han, Leia, Chewbacca, and the rest of the strike team were escorted out of thebunker by their captors. The sight that greeted them was substantially different fromthe way the grassy area had appeared when they'd entered. The clearing was nowfilled with Imperial troops.
　　Hundreds of them, in white or black armor-some standing at ease, someviewing the scene from atop their two-legged walkers, some leaning on their speederbikes. If the situation had appeared hopeless inside the bunker, it looked even worsenow.
　　Han and Leia turned to each other full of feeling. All they'd struggled for, allthey'd dreamed of-gone, now. Even so, they'd had each other for a short while atleast. They'd come together from opposite ends of a wasteland of emotionalisolation: Han had never known love, so enamored of himself was he; Leia hadnever known love, so wrapped up in social upheaval was she, so intent on embracingall of humanity. And somewhere between his glassy infatuation for the one, and herglowing fervor for the all, they'd found a shady place where two could huddle, grow,even feel nourished.
　　But that, too, was cut short, now. The end seemed near. So much was there tosay, they couldn't find a single word. Instead, they only joined hands, speakingthrough their fingers in these final minutes of companionship.
　　That's when Threepio and Artoo jauntily entered the clearing, beeping andjabbering excitedly to each other. They stopped cold in their tracks when they sawwhat the clearing had become´and found all eyes suddenly focused on them.
　　"Oh, dear," Threepio whimpered. In a second, he and Artoo had turned aroundand run right back into the woods from which they'd just come. Six stormtrooperscharged in after them.
　　The Imperial soldiers were in time to see the two droids duck behind a large tree,some twenty yards into the forest. They rushed after the robots. As they roundedthe tree, they found Artoo and Threepio standing there quietly, waiting to be taken.The guards moved to take them. They moved too slowly.
　　Fifteen Ewoks dropped out of the overhanging branches, quickly overpoweringthe Imperial troops with rocks and clubs. At that, Teebo-perched in anothertree-raised a ram's horn to his lips and sounded three long blasts from its bell. Thatwas the signal for the Ewoks to attack.
　　Hundreds of them descended upon the clearing from all sides, throwingthemselves against the might of the Imperial army with unrestrained zeal. The scenewas unabridged chaos.
　　Stormtroopers fired their laser pistols at the furry creatures, killing or woundingmany-only to be overrun by dozens more in their place. Biker scouts chasedsquealing Ewoks into the woods-and were knocked from their bikes by volleys ofrocks launched from the trees.
　　In the first confused moments of the attack, Chewie dove into the foliage, whileHan and Leia hit the dirt in the cover of the arches that flanked the bunker door.Explosions all around kept them pinned from leaving; the bunker door itself wasclosed again, and locked.
　　Han punched out the stolen code on the control panel keys-but this time, thedoor didn't open. It had been reprogrammed as soon as they'd been caught. "Theterminal doesn't work now," he muttered.
　　Leia stretched for a laser pistol lying in the dirt, just out of reach, beside a felledstormtrooper. Shots were crisscrossing from every direction, though.
　　"We need Artoo," she shouted.
　　Han nodded, took out his comlink, pushed the sequence that signaled the littledroid and reached for the weapon Leia couldn't get as the fighting stormed all aroundthem.
　　Artoo and Threepio were huddled behind a log when Artoo got the message.He suddenly blurted out an excited whistle and shot off toward the battlefield.
　　"Artoo!" Threepio shouted. "Where are you going? Wait for me!" Nearlybeside himself, the golden droid tore off after his best friend.
　　Biker scouts raced over and around the scurrying droids, blasting away at theEwoks who grew fiercer every time their fur was scorched. The little bears werehanging on the legs of the Imperial walkers, hobbling the appendages with lengths ofvine, or injuring the joint mechanisms by forcing pebbles and twigs into the hinges.They were knocking scouts off their bikes, by stringing vine between trees at throatlevel. They were throwing rocks, jumping out of trees, impaling with spears,entangling with nets. They were everywhere.
　　Scores of them rallied behind Chewbacca, who had grown rather fond of themduring the course of the previous night. He'd become their mascot; and they, hislittle country cousins. So it was with a special ferocity, now, that they came to eachother's aid. Chewie was flinging stormtroopers left and right, in a selfless Wookieefrenzy, any time he saw them physically formed equally self-sacrificing cadres to donothing but follow Chewbacca and throw themselves upon any soldiers who startedgetting the upper hand with him.
　　It was a wild, strange battle.
　　Artoo and Threepio finally made it to the bunker door. Han and Leia providedcover fire with guns they'd finally managed to scrounge. Artoo moved quickly tothe terminal, plugged in his computer arm, began scanning. Before he'd evencomputed the weather codes, though, a laser bolt explosion ripped the entranceway,disengaging Artoo's cable arm, spilling him to the dirt.
　　His head began to smolder, his fittings to leak. All of a sudden everycompartment sprang open, every nozzle gushed or smoked, every wheel spun-andthen stopped. Threepio rushed to his wounded companion, as Han examined thebunker terminal.
　　"Maybe I can hotwire this thing," Solo mumbled.
　　Meanwhile the Ewoks had erected a primitive catapult at the other side of thefield. They fired a large boulder at one of the walkers-the machine vibratedseriously, but did not topple. It turned, and headed for the catapult, laser cannonfiring. The Ewoks scattered. When the walker was ten feet away, the Ewokschopped a mass of restraining vines, and two huge, balanced trunks crashed down ontop of the Imperial war wagon, halting it for good.
　　The next phase of the assault began. Ewoks in kite-like animal-skinhang-gliders started dropping rocks on the stormtroopers, or dive-bombing withspears. Teebo, who led the attack, was hit in the wing with laser fire during the firstvolley and crashed into a gnarled root. A charging walker clumped forward to crushhim, but Wicket swooped down just in time, yanking Teebo to safety. In swervingout of the walker's way, though, Wicket smashed into a racing speeder bike-they allwent tumbling into the dense foliage.
　　And so it went.
　　The casualties mounted.
　　High above, it was no different. A thousand deadly dogfights and cannonbombardments were erupting all over the skies, while the Death Star laser beammethodically disintegrated the Rebel ships.
　　In the Millennium Falcon, Lando steered like a maniac through an obstaclecourse of the giant, floating Imperial Star Destroyers-trading laser bolts with them,dodging flak, outracing TIE fighters.
　　Desperately, he was shouting into his comlink, over the noise of continuousexplosions, talking to Ackbar in the Alliance command ship. "I said closer! Movein as close as you can and engage the Star Destroyers at point blank range-that waythe Death Star won't be able to fire at us without knocking out its own ships!"
　　"But no one's ever gone nose to nose at that range, between supervessels liketheir Destroyers and our Cruisers!" Ackbar fumed at the unthinkable-but theiroptions were running out.
　　"Great!" yelled Lando, skimming over the surface of the Destroyer. "Thenwe're inventing a new kind of combat!"
　　"We know nothing about the tactics of such a confrontation!" Ackbar protested.
　　"We know as much as they do!" Lando hollered. "And they'll think we knowmore!" Bluffing was always dangerous in the last hand: but sometimes, when allyour money was in the pot, it was the only way to win-and Lando never played tolose.
　　"At that close-range, we won't last long against Star Destroyers." Ackbar wasalready feeling giddy with resignation.
　　"We'll last longer than we will against that Death Star and we might just take afew of them with us!" Lando whooped. With a jolt, one of his forward guns wasblown away. He put the Falcon into a controlled spin, and careened around the bellyof the Imperial leviathan.
　　With little else to lose, Ackbar decided to try Calrissian's strategy. In the nextminutes, dozens of Rebel Cruisers moved in astronomically close to the Imperial StarDestroyers-and the colossal antagonists began blasting away at each other, like tanksat twenty paces, while hundreds of tiny fighters raced across their surfaces, zippingbetween laser bolts as they chased around the massive hulls.
　　Slowly, Luke and Vader circled. Lightsaber high above his head, Luke readiedhis attack from classic first-position; the Dark Lord held a lateral stance, in classicanswer. Without announcement, Luke brought his blade straight down-then, whenVader moved to parry, Luke feinted and cut low. Vader counterparried, let theimpact direct his sword toward Luke's throat´but Luke met the riposte and steppedback. The first blows, traded without injury. Again, they circled.
　　Vader was impressed with Luke's speed. Pleased, even. It was a pity, almost,he couldn't let the boy kill the Emperor yet. Luke wasn't ready for that, emotionally.There was still a chance Luke would return to his friends if he destroyed the Emperornow. He needed more extensive tutelage, first-training by both Vader andPalpatine-before he'd be ready to assume his place at Vader's right hand, ruling thegalaxy.
　　So Vader had to shephered the boy through periods like this, stop him from doingdamage in the wrong places-or in the right places prematurely.
　　Before Vader could gather his thoughts much further, though, Luke attackedagain-much more aggressively. He advanced in a flurry of lunges, each met with aloud crack of Vader's phosphorescent saber. The Dark Lord retreated a step at everyslash, swiveling once to bring his cutting beam up viciously-but Luke batted it away,pushing Vader back yet again. The Lord of the Sith momentarily lost his footing onthe stairs and tumbled to his knees.
　　Luke stood above him, at the top of the staircase, heady with his own power. Itwas in his hands, now, he knew it was: he could take Vader. Take his blade, take hislife. Take his place at the Emperor's side. Yes, even that. Luke didn't bury thethought, this time; he gloried in it. He engorged himself with its juices, felt itspower tingle his cheeks. It made him feverish, this thought, with lust sooverpowering as to totally obliterate all other considerations.
　　He had the power; the choice was his.
　　And then another thought emerged, slowly compulsive as an ardent lover: hecould destroy the Emperor, too. Destroy them both, and rule the galaxy. Avengeand conquer.
　　It was a profound moment for Luke. Dizzying. Yet he did not swoon. Nordid he recoil.
　　He took one step forward.
　　For the first time, the thought entered Vader's consciousness that his son mightbest him. He was astounded by the strength Luke had acquired since their last duel,in the Cloud City-not to mention the boy's timing, which was honed to athought's-breadth. This was an unexpected circumstance. Unexpected andunwelcome. Vader felt humiliation crawling in on the tail of his first reaction, whichwas surprise, and his second, which was fear. And then the edge of the humiliationcurled up, to reveal bald anger. And now he wanted revenge.
　　These things were mirrored, each facet, by the young Jedi who now toweredabove him. The Emperor, watching joyously, saw this, and goaded Luke on to revelin his Darkness. "Use your aggressive feelings, boy! Yes! Let the hate flowthrough you! Become one with it, let it nourish you!"
　　Luke faltered a moment-then realized what was happening. He was suddenlyconfused again. What did he want? What should he do? His brief exultation, hismicrosecond of dark clarity-gone, now, in a wash of indecision, veiled enigma.Cold awakening from a passionate flirtation.
　　He took a step back, lowered his sword, relaxed, and tried to drive the hatredfrom his being.
　　In that instant, Vader attacked. He lunged half up the stairs, forcing Luke toreverse defensively. He bound the boy's blade with his own, but Luke disengagedand leaped to the safety of an overhead gantry. Vader jumped over the railing to thefloor beneath the platform on which Luke stood.
　　"I will not fight you, Father," Luke stated.
　　"You are unwise to lower your defenses," Vader warned. His anger was layered,now-he did not want to win if the boy was not battling to the fullest. But ifwinning meant he had to kill the boy who wouldn't fight´then he could do that, too.Only he wanted Luke to be aware of those consequences. He wanted Luke to knowthis was no longer just a game. This was Darkness.
　　Luke heard something else, though. "Your thoughts betray you, Father. I feelthe good in you´the conflict. You could not bring yourself to kill me before-andyou won't destroy me now." Twice before, in fact-to Luke's recollection-Vadercould have killed him, but didn't. in the dogfight over the first Death Star, and laterin the lightsaber duel on Bespin. He thought of Leia, briefly now, too-of howVader had had her in his clutches once, had even tortured her´but didn't kill her.He winced to think of her agony, but quickly pushed that from his mind. The pointwas clear to him, now, though so often so murky: there was still good in his father.
　　This accusation really made Vader angry. He could tolerate much from theinsolent child, but this was insufferable. He must teach this boy a lesson he wouldnever forget, or die learning. "Once again, you underestimate the power of the darkside´"
　　Vader threw his scintillating blade-it sliced through the supports holding up thegantry on which Luke was perched, then swept around and flew back into Vader'shand. Luke tumbled to the ground, then rolled down another level, under the tiltingplatform. In the shadow of the darkened overhang, he was out of sight. Vaderpaced the area like a cat, seeking the boy; but he wouldn't enter the shadows of theoverhang.
　　"You cannot hide forever, Luke."
　　"You'll have to come in and get me," replied the disembodied voice.
　　"I will not give you the advantage that easily." Vader felt his intentionsincreasingly ambiguous in this conflict; the purity of his evil was being compromised.The boy was clever indeed-Vader knew he must move with extreme caution now.
　　"I wish no advantage, father. I will not fight you. Here´take my weapon."Luke knew full well this might be his end, but so be it. He would not use Darknessto fight Darkness. Perhaps it would be left to Leia, after all, to carry on the struggle,without him. Perhaps she would know a way he didn't know; perhaps she could finda path. For now, though, he could see only two paths, and one was into Darkness;and one was not.
　　Luke put his lightsaber on the ground, and rolled it along the floor toward Vader.It stopped halfway between them, in the middle of the low overhead area. The DarkLord reached out his hand-Luke's lightsaber jumped into it. He hooked it to hisbelt and, with grave uncertainty, entered the shadowy overhang.
　　He was picking up additional feelings from Luke, now, new crosscurrents ofdoubt. Remorse, regret, abandonment. Shades of pain. But somehow nowdirectly related to Vader. To others, to´Endor. Ah, that was it-the SanctuaryMoon where his friends would soon die. Luke would learn soon enough: friendshipwas different on the dark side. A different thing altogether.
　　"Give yourself to the dark side, Luke," he entreated. "It is the only way youcan save your friends. Yes, your thoughts betray you, son. Your feelings for themare strong, especially for-"
　　Vader stopped. He sensed something.
　　Luke withdrew further into shadow. He tried to hide, but there was no way tohide what was in his mind-Leia was in pain. Her agony cried to him now, and hisspirit cried with her. He tried to shut it out, to shut it up, but the cry was loud, and hecouldn't stifle it, couldn't leave it alone, had to cradle it openly, to give it solace.
　　Vader's consciousness invaded that private place.
　　"No!" screamed Luke.
　　Vader was incredulous. "Sister? Sister!" he bellowed. "Your feelings havenow betrayed her, too´Twins!" he roared triumphantly. "Obi-wan was wise to hideher, but now his failure is complete." His smile was clear to Luke, through the mask,through the shadows, through all the realms of Darkness. "If you will not turned tothe Dark Side, perhaps she will."
　　This, then, was Luke's breaking point. For Leia was everyone's last unflagginghope. If Vader turned his twisted, misguided cravings on her´
　　"Never!" he screamed. His lightsaber flew off Vader's belt into his own hand,igniting as it came to him.
　　He rushed to his father with a frenzy he'd never known. Nor had Vader. Thegladiators battled fiercely, sparks flying from the clash of their radiant weapons, but itwas soon evident that the advantage was all Luke's. And he was pressing it. Theylocked swords, body to body. When Luke pushed Vader back to break the clinch, theDark Lord hit his head on an overhanging beam in the cramped space. He stumbledbackward even farther, out of the low-hanging area. Luke pursued him relentlessly.
　　Blow upon blow, Luke forced Vader to retreat-back, onto the bridge thatcrossed the vast, seemingly bottomless shaft to the power core. Each stroke ofLuke's saber pummeled Vader, like accusations, like screams, like shards of hate.
　　The Dark Lord was driven to his knees. He raised his blade to block yetanother onslaught-and Luke slashed Vader's right hand off at the wrist.
　　The hand, along with bits of metal, wires, and electronic devices, clattereduselessly away while Vader's lightsaber tumbled over the edge of the span, into theendless shaft below, without a trace.
　　Luke stared at his father's twitching, severed, mechanical hand-and then at hisown black-gloved artificial part-and realized suddenly just how much he'd becomelike his father. Like the man he hated.
　　Trembling, he stood above Vader, the point of his glowing blade at the DarkLord's throat. He wanted to destroy this thing of Darkness, this thing that was oncehis father, this thing that was´him.
　　Suddenly the Emperor was there, looking on, chuckling with uncontrollable,pleased agitation. "Good! Kill him! Your hate has made you powerful! Now,fulfill your destiny and take your father's place at my side!"
　　Luke stared at his father beneath him, then at the Emperor, then back at Vader.This was Darkness-and it was the Darkness he hated. Not his father, not even theEmperor. But the Darkness in them. In them, and in himself.
　　And the only way to destroy the Darkness way to renounce it. For good and all.He stood suddenly erect, and made the decision for which he'd spent his life inpreparation.
　　He hurled his lightsaber away. "Never! Never will I turn to the dark side!You have failed, Palpatine. I am a Jedi, as my father was before me."
　　The Emperor's glee turned to a sullen rage. "So be it, Jedi. If you will not beturned, you will be destroyed."
　　Palpatine raised his spidery arms toward Luke: blinding white bolts of energycoruscated from his fingers, shot across the room like sorcerous lightning, and torethrough the boy's insides, looking for ground. The young Jedi was at onceconfounded and in agony-he'd never heard of such a power, such a corruption of theForce, let alone experienced it.
　　But if it was Force-generated, it could be Force-repelled. Luke raised his armsto deflect the bolts. Initially, he was successful-the lightning rebounded from histouch, harmlessly into the walls. Soon, though, the shocks came with such speedand power, they coursed over and into him, and he could only shrink before them,convulsed with pain, his knees buckling, his powers at ebb.
　　Vader crawled, like a wounded animal, to his Emperor's side.
　　On Endor, the battle of the bunker continued. Stormtroopers kept irradiatingEwoks with sophisticated weaponry, while the fuzzy little warriors bashed away at theImperial troops with clubs, tumbled walkers with logpiles and vine trip-wires, lassoedspeeder bikes with vine-ropes and net-traps.
　　They felled trees on their foes. They dug pits, which they covered withbranches, and then lured the walkers to chase them until the clumsy armored vehiclestoppled into the dugouts. They started rockslides. They dammed a small, nearbystream, and then opened the floodgates, deluging a host of troops and two morewalkers. They ganged up, and then ran away. They jumped on top of walkers fromhigh branches, and poured pouches of burning lizard-oil in the gun-slits. They usedknives, and spears, and slings, and made scary war-shrieks to confound and dismaythe enemy. They were fearless opponents.
　　Their example made even Chewie bolder than was his wont. He started havingso much fun swinging on vines and bashing heads, he nearly forgot about his laserpistol.
　　He swung onto the roof of a Walker at one point, with Teebo and Wicket clingingto his back. They landed with a thud atop the lurching contraption, then made such abanging racket trying to hang on, one of stormtroopers inside opened the top hatch tosee what was happening. Before he could fire his gun, Chewie plucked him out anddashed him to the ground-Wicket and Teebo immediately dove into the hatch andsubdued the other trooper.
　　Ewoks drive an Imperial Walker much the way they drive speederbikes-terribly, but with exhilaration. Chewie was almost thrown off the top severaltimes, but even barking angrily down into the cockpit didn't seem to have mucheffect-the Ewoks just giggled, squealed, and careened into another speeder bike.
　　Chewie climbed down inside. It took him half a minute to master thecontrols-Imperial technology was pretty standardized. And then, methodically, oneby one, he began approaching the other, unsuspecting, Imperial Walkers, and blastingthem to dust. Most had no idea what was happening.
　　As the giant war-machines began going up in flames, the Ewoks were reinspired.They rallied behind Chewie's Walker. The Wookiee was turning the tide of battle.
　　Han, meanwhile, was still working furiously at the control panel. Wiressparked each time he refastened another connection, but the door kept not opening.Leia crouched at his back, firing her laser pistol, giving him cover.
　　He motioned her at last. "Give me a hand, I think I've got it figured out. Holdthis."
　　He handed her one of the wires. She holstered her weapon, took the wire hegave her, and held it in position as he brought two others over from opposite ends ofthe panel.
　　"Here goes nothing," he said.
　　The three wires sparked; the connection was made. There was a sudden loudWHUMP, as a second blast door crashed down in front of the first, doubling theimpregnable barrier.
　　"Great. Now we have two doors to get through." Leia muttered.
　　At that moment, she was hit in the arm by a laser bolt, and knocked to theground.
　　Han rushed over to her. "Leia, no!" he cried, trying to stop the bleeding.
　　"Princess Leia, are you all right?" Threepio fretted.
　　"It's not bad," she shook her head. "It's-"
　　"Hold it!" shouted a voice. "One move and you're both dead!"
　　They froze, looked up. Two stormtroopers stood before them, weapons leveled,unwavering.
　　"Stand up," one ordered. "Hands raised."
　　Han and Leia looked at each other, fixed their gazes deep in each other's eyes,swam there in the wells of their souls for a suspended, eternal moment, during whichall was felt, understood, touched, shared.
　　Solo's gaze was drawn down to Leia's holster-she'd surreptitiously eased outher gun, and was holding it now at the ready. The action was hidden from thetroopers, because Han was standing in front of Leia, half-blocking their view.
　　He looked again into her eyes, comprehending. With a last, heartfelt smile, hewhispered, "I love you."
　　"I know," she answered simply.
　　Then the moment was over; and at an unspoken, instantaneous signal, Hanwhirled out of the line of fire as Leia blasted at the stormtroopers.
　　The air was filled with laser fire-a glinting orange-pink haze, like an electronstorm, buffeted the area, sheared by intense flares.
　　As the smoke cleared, a giant Imperial Walker approached, stood before him, andstopped. Han looked up to see its laser cannons aimed directly in his face. Heraised his arms, and took a tentative step forward. He wasn't really sure what he wasgoing to do. "Stay back," he said quietly to Leia, measuring the distance to themachine, in his mind.
　　That was when the hatch on top of the Walker popped open and Chewbaccastuck his head out with an ingratiating smile.
　　"Ahr Rahr!" barked the Wookiee.
　　Solo could have kissed him. "Chewie! Get down here! She's wounded!"He started forward to greet his partner, then stopped in mid-stride. "No, wait. I'vegot an idea."

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
    

Return of The Jedi
IX

　　The two space armadas, like their sea-bound counterparts of another time and galaxy,sat floating, ship to ship, trading broadsides with each other in pointblankconfrontation. 
　　Heroic, sometimes suicidal, maneuvers marked the day. A Rebel cruiser, itsback alive with fires and explosions, limped into direct contact with an Imperial StarDestroyer before exploding completely-taking the Star Destroyer with it. Cargoships loaded with charge were set on collision courses with fortress-vessels, theircrews abandoning ships to fates that were uncertain, at best.
　　Lando, Wedge, Blue Leader, and Green Wing went in to take out one of thelarger Destroyers-the Empire's main communications ship. It had already beendisabled by direct cannonade from the Rebel cruiser it had subsequently destroyed;but its damages were reparable-so the Rebels had to strike while it was still lickingits wounds.
　　Lando's squadron went in low-rock-throwing low-this prevented theDestroyer from using its bigger guns. It also made the fighters invisible until theywere directly visualized.
　　"Increase power on the front deflector shields," Lando radioed his group."We're going in."
　　"I'm right with you," answered Wedge. "Close up formations, team."
　　They went into a high-speed power-dive, perpendicular to the long axis of theImperial vessel-vertical drops were hard to track. Fifty feet from the surface, theypulled out at ninety degrees, and raced along the gunmetal hull, taking laserfire fromevery port.
　　"Starting attack run on the main power tree," Lando advised.
　　"I copy," answered Green Wing. "Moving into position."
　　"Stay clear of their front batteries," warned Blue Leader.
　　"It's a heavy fire zone down there."
　　"I'm in range."
　　"She's hurt bad on the left of the tower," Wedge noted. "Concentrate on thatside."
　　"Right with you."
　　Green Wing was hit. "I'm losing power!"
　　"Get clear, you're going to blow!"
　　Green Wing took it down like riding a rocket, into the Destroyer's front batteries.Tremendous explosions rumbled the port bow.
　　"Thanks," Blue Leader said quietly to the conflagration.
　　"That opens it up for us!" yelled Wedge. "Cur over. The power reactors arejust inside that cargo bay."
　　"Follow me!" Lando called, pulling the Falcon into a sharp bank that caught thehorrified reactor personnel by surprise. Wedge and Blue followed suit. They alldid their worst.
　　"Direct hit!" Lando shouted.
　　"There she goes!"
　　"Pull up, pull up!"
　　They pulled up hard and fast, as the Destroyer was enveloped in a series ofever-increasing explosions, until it looked finally just like one more small star. BlueLeader was caught by the shock wave, and thrown horribly against the side of asmaller Imperial ship, which also exploded. Lando and Wedge escaped.
　　On the Rebel command ship bridge, smoke and shouts filled the air.
　　Ackbar reached Calrissian on the comlink. "The jamming has stopped. Wehave a reading on the shield."
　　"Is it still up?" Lando responded with desperate anticipation in his voice.
　　"I'm afraid so. It looks like General Solo's unit didn't make it."
　　"Until they've destroyed our last ship, there's still hope," replied Lando. Hanwouldn't fail. He couldn't-they still had to pick off that annoying Death Star.
　　On the Death Star, Luke was nearly unconscious beneath the continuing assaultof the Emperor's lightning. Tormented beyond reason, betaken of a weakness thatdrained his very essence, he hoped for nothing more than to submit to the nothingnesstoward which he was drifting.
　　The Emperor smiled down at the enfeebled young Jedi, as Vader struggled to hisfeet beside his master.
　　"Young fool!" Palpatine rasped at Luke. "Only now at the end, do youunderstand. Your puerile skills are no match for the power of the dark side. Youhave paid a price for your lack of vision. Now, young Skywalker, you will pay theprice in full. You will die!"
　　He laughed maniacally; and although it would not have seemed possible to Luke,the outpouring of bolts from the Emperor's fingers actually increased in intensity.The sound screamed through the room, the murderous brightness of the flashes wasoverwhelming.
　　Luke's body slowed, wilted, finally crumpled under the hideous barrage. Hestopped moving altogether. At last, he appeared totally lifeless. The Emperorhissed maliciously.
　　At that instant, Vader sprang up and grabbed the Emperor from behind, pinningPalpatine's upper arms to his torso. Weaker than he'd ever been, Vader had lain stillthese last few minutes, focusing his every fiber of being on this one, concentratedact-the only action possible; his last, if he failed. Ignoring pain, ignoring his shameand his weaknesses, ignoring the bone-crushing noise in his head, he focused solelyand sightlessly on his will-he will to defeat the evil embodied in the Emperor.
　　Palpatine struggled in the grip of Vader's unfeeling embrace, his hands stillshooting bolts of malign energy out in all directions. In his wild flailing, thelightning ripped across the room, tearing into Vader. The Dark Lord fell again,electric currents crackling down his helmet, over his cape, into his heart.
　　Vader stumbled with his load to the middle of the bridge over the black chasmleading to the power core. He held the wailing despot high over his head, and with afinal spasm of strength, hurled him into the abyss.
　　Palpatine's body, still spewing bolts of light, spun out of control, into the void,bouncing back and forth off the sides of the shaft as it fell. It disappeared at last; butthen, a few seconds later, a distant explosion could be heard, far down at the core. Arush of air billowed out the shaft, into the throne room.
　　The wind whipped at Lord Vader's cape, as he staggered and collapsed towardthe hole, trying to follow his master to the end. Luke crawled to his father's side,though, and pulled the Dark Lord away from the edge of the chasm, to safety.
　　Both of them lay on the floor, entwined in each other, too weak to move, toomoved to speak.
　　Inside the bunker on Endor, Imperial controllers watched the main view-screenof the Ewok battle just outside. Though the image was clogged with static, thefighting seemed to be winding down. About time, since they'd initially been toldthat the locals on this moon were harmless nonbelligerents.
　　The interference seemed to worsen-probably another antenna damaged in thefighting-when suddenly a walker pilot appeared on the screen, waving excitedly.
　　"It's over, Commander! The Rebel have been routed, and are fleeing with thebear-creatures into the woods. We need reinforcements to continue the pursuit."
　　The bunker personnel all cheered. The shield was safe.
　　"Open the main door!" ordered the commander. "Send three squads to help."
　　The bunker door opened, the Imperial troops came rushing out only to findthemselves surrounded by Rebels and Ewoks, looking bloody and mean. TheImperial troops surrendered without a fight.
　　Han, Chewie, and five others ran into the bunker with the explosive charges.They placed the timed devices at eleven strategic points in and around the powergenerator, then ran out again as fast as they could.
　　Leia, still in great pain from her wounds, lay in the sheltered comfort of somedistant bushes. She was shouting orders to the Ewoks, to gather their prisoners onthe far side of the clearing, away from the bunker when Han and Chewie tore out,racing for cover. In the next moment, the bunker went.
　　It was a spectacular display, explosion after explosion sending a wall of firehundreds of feet into the air, creating a shock wave that knocked every living creatureoff its feet, and charred all the greenery that faced the clearing.
　　The bunker was destroyed.
　　A captain ran up to Admiral Ackbar, his voice tremulous. "Sir, the shieldaround the Death Star has lost its power."
　　Ackbar looked at the view-screen; the electronically generated web was gone.The moon, and the Death Star, now floated in black, empty, unprotected space.
　　"They did it," Ackbar whispered.
　　He rushed over to the comlink and shouted into the multifrequency war channel."All fighters commence attack on the Death Star's main reactor. The deflectorshield is down. Repeat. The deflector shield is down!"
　　Lando's voice was the next one heard. "I see it. We're on our way. Redgroup! Gold group! Blue Squad! All fighters follow me!" That's my man, Han.Now it's my turn.
　　The Falcon plunged to the surface of the Death Star, followed by hordes ofRebel fighters, followed by a still-massing but disorganized array of Imperial TIEfighters-while three Rebel Star Cruisers headed for the huge Imperial Super StarDestroyer, Vader's flagship, which seemed to be having difficulties with its guidancesystem.
　　Lando and the first wave of X-wings headed for the unfinished portion of theDeath Star, skimming low over the curving surface of the completed side.
　　"Stay low until we get to the unfinished side," Wedge told his squad. Nobodyneeded to be told.
　　"Squadron of enemy fighters coming-"
　　"Blue Wing," called Lando, "take your group and draw the TIE fighters away-"
　　"I'll do what I can."
　　"I'm picking up interference´the Death Star's jamming us, I think-"
　　"More fighters coming at ten o'clock-"
　　"There's the superstructure," Lando called. "Watch for the main reactor shaft."
　　He turned hard into the unfinished side, and began weaving dramatically amongprotruding girders, half-built towers, mazelike channels, temporary scaffolding,sporadic floodlights. The antiaircraft defenses weren't nearly as well developed hereyet-they'd been depending completely on the deflector shield for protection.Consequently the major sources of worry for the Rebels were the physical jeopardiesof the structure itself, and the Imperial TIE fighters on their tails.
　　"I see it-the power-channel system," Wedge radioed. "I'm going in."
　　"I see it, too," agreed Lando. "Here goes nothing."
　　"This isn't going to be easy-"
　　Over a tower and under a bridge-and suddenly they were flying at top speedinside a deep shaft that was barely wide enough for three fighters, wing to wing.Moreover, it was pierced, along its entire twisting length, by myriad feeding shaftsand tunnels, alternate forks, and dead-end caverns; and spiked, in addition, with analarming number of obstacles within the shaft itself: heavy machinery, structuralelements, power cables, floating stairways, barrier half-walls, piled debris.
　　A score of Rebel fighters made the first turn-off into the power shaft, followedby twice that number of TIEs. Two X-wings lost its right away, careening into aderrick to avoid the first volley of laser fire.
　　The chase was on.
　　"Where are we going, Gold Leader?" Wedge called out gaily. A laserbolt hitthe shaft above him, showering his window with sparks.
　　"Lock onto the strongest power source," Lando suggested. "It should be thegenerator."
　　"Red Wing, stay alert-we could run out of space real fast."
　　They quickly strung out into single and double file, as it started becomingapparent that the shaft was not only pocked with side-vents and protruding obstacles,but also narrowing across its width at every turn.
　　TIE fighters hit another Rebel, who exploded in flames. Then another Tiefighter hit a piece of machinery, with a similar result.
　　"I've got a reading on a major shaft obstruction ahead," Lando announced.
　　"Just picked it up. Will you make it?"
　　"Going to be a tight squeeze."
　　It was a tight squeeze. It was a heat-wall occluding three fourths of the tunnel,with a dip in the shaft at the same level to make up a little room. Lando had to spinthe Falcon through 360 degrees while rising, falling, and accelerating. Luckily, theX-wings and Y-wings weren't quite as bulky. Still, two more of them didn't make iton the downside. The smaller TIEs drew closer.
　　Suddenly coarse white static blanketed all the view-screens.
　　"My scope's gone!" yelled Wedge.
　　"Cut speed," cautioned Lando. "Some kind of power discharge causinginterference."
　　"Switch to visual scanning."
　　"That's useless at these velocities-we'll have to fly nearly blind."
　　Two blind X-wings hit the wall as the shaft narrowed again. A third was blownapart by the gaining Imperial fighters.
　　"Green Leader!" called Lando.
　　"Copy, Gold Leader."
　　"Split off and head back to the surface-Home-one just called for a fighter, andyou might draw some fire off us."
　　Green Leader and his cohort peeled off, out of the power shaft, back up to thecruiser battle. One TIE fighter followed, firing continuously.
　　Ackbar's voice came in over the comlink. "The Death Star is tuning away fromthe fleet-looks like it's repositioning to destroy the Endor Moon."
　　"How long before it's in position?" Lando asked.
　　"Point oh three."
　　"That's not enough time! We're running out of time."
　　Wedge broke in the transmission. "Well, we're running out of shaft, too."
　　At that instant the Falcon scraped through an even smaller opening, this timeinjuring her auxiliary thrusters.
　　"That was too close," muttered Calrissian.
　　"Gdzhng dzn," nodded the copilot.
　　Ackbar stared wild-eyed out the observation window. He was looking downonto the deck of the Super Star Destroyer; only miles away. Fires burst over theentire stern, and the Imperial warship was listing badly to starboard.
　　"We've knocked out their forward shields," Ackbar said into the comlink. "Fireat the bridge."
　　Green Leader's group swooped in low, from bottomside, up from the Death Star,
　　"Glad to help out, Home-one," called Green Leader.
　　"Firing proton torpedoes," Green Wing advised.
　　The bridge was hit, with kaleidoscopic results. A rapid chain reaction got setoff, from power station to power station along the middle third of the huge Destroyer,producing a dazzling rainbow of explosions that buckled the ship at right angles, andstarted it spinning like a pinwheel toward the Death Star.
　　The first bridge explosion took Greed Leader with it; the subsequentuncontrolled joyride snagged ten more fighters, two cruisers, and an ordnance vessel.By the time the whole exothermic conglomerate finally crashed into the side of theDeath Star, the impact was momentous enough to actually jolt the battle station,setting off internal explosions and thunderings all through its network of reactors,munitions, and halls.
　　For the first time, the Death Star rocked. The collision with the explodingDestroyer was only the beginning, leading to various systems breakdowns, which ledto reactor meltdowns, which led to personnel panic, abandonment of posts, furthermalfunctions, and general chaos.
　　Smoke was everywhere, substantial rumblings came from all directions at once,people were running and shouting. Electrical fires, steam explosions, cabindepressurizations, disruption of chain-of-command. Added to this, the continuedbombardments by Rebel cruisers-smelling fear in the enemy-merely heightenedthe sense of hysteria that was already pervasive.
　　For the Emperor was dead. The central, powerful evil that had been thecohesive force to the Empire was gone; and when the dark side was this diffused, thisnondirected-this was simply where it led.
　　Confusion.
　　Desperation.
　　Damp fear.
　　In the midst of this uproar, Luke had made it, somehow, to the main dockingbay-where he was trying to carry the hulking deadweight of his father's weakeningbody toward an Imperial shuttle. Halfway there, his strength finally gave out,though; and he collapsed under the strain.
　　Slowly he rose again. Like an automaton, he hoisted his father's body over hisshoulder and stumbled toward one of the last remaining shuttles.
　　Luke rested his father on the ground, trying to collect strength one last time, asexplosions grew louder all around them. Sparks hissed in the rafters; one of thewalls buckled, and smoke poured through a gaping fissure. The floor shook.
　　Vader motioned Luke closer to him. "Luke, help me take this mask off."
　　Luke shook his head. "You'll die."
　　The Dark Lord's voice was weary. "Nothing can stop that now. Just once letme face you without it. Let me look on you with my own eyes."
　　Luke was afraid. Afraid to see his father as he really was. Afraid to see whatperson could have become so dark-the same person who'd fathered Luke, and Leia.Afraid to know the Anakin Skywalker who lived inside Darth Vader.
　　Vader, too, was afraid-to let his son see him, to remove this armored mask thathad been between them so long. The black, armored mask that had been his onlymeans of existing for over twenty years. It had been his voice, and his breath, andhis invisibility-his shield against all human contact. But now he would remove it;for he would see his son before he died.
　　Together they lifted the heavy helmet from Vader's head-inside the maskportion, a complicated breathing apparatus had to be disentangled, a speakingmodulator and view-screen detached from the power unit in back. But when themask was finally off and set aside, Luke gazed on his father's face.
　　It was the sad, benign face of an old man. Bald, beardless, with a mighty scarrunning from the top of his head to the back of the scalp, he had unfocused, deepset,dark eyes, and his skin was pasty white, for it had not seen the sun in two decades.The old man smiled weakly; tears glazed his eyes, now. For a moment, he lookednot too unlike Ben.
　　It was a face full of meanings, that Luke would forever recall. Regret, he sawmost plainly. And shame. Memories could be seen flashing across it´memoriesof rich times. And horrors. And love, too.
　　It was a face that hadn't touched the world in a lifetime. In Luke's lifetime.He saw the wizened nostrils twitch, as they tested a first, tentative smell. He saw thehead tilt imperceptibly to listen-for the first time without electronic auditoryamplification. Luke felt a pang of remorse that the only sounds now to be heardwere those of explosions, the only smells, the pungent sting of electrical fires. Still,it was a touch. Palpable, unfiltered.
　　He saw the old eyes focus on him. Tears burned Luke's cheeks, fell on hisfather's lips. His father smiled at the taste.
　　It was a face that had not seen itself in twenty years.
　　Vader saw his son crying, and knew it must have been at the horror of the facethey boy beheld.
　　It intensified, momentarily, Vader's own sense of anguish-to his crimes, now,he added guilt at the imagined repugnance of his appearance. But then this broughthim to mind of the way he used to look-striking, and grand, with a wry tilt to hisbrow that hinted of invincibility and took in all of life with a wink. Yes, that washow he'd looked once.
　　And this memory brought a wave of other memories with it. Memories ofbrotherhood, and home. His dear wife. The freedom of deep space. Obi-wan.Obi-wan, his friend´and how that friendship had turned. Turned, he knew nothow-but got injected, nonetheless, with some uncaring virulence that festered,until´hold. These were memories he wanted none of, not now. Memories ofmolten lava, crawling up his back´no.
　　This boy had pulled him from that pit-here, now, with this act. This boy wasgood.
　　The boy was good, and the boy had come from him-so there must have beengood in him, too. He smiled up again at his son, and for the first time, loved him.And for the first time in many long years, loved himself again, as well.
　　Suddenly he smelled something-flared his nostrils, sniffed once more.Wildflowers, that was what it was. Just blooming; it must be spring.
　　And there was thunder-he cocked his head, strained his ears. Yes, springthunder, for a spring rain. To make the flowers bloom.
　　Yes, there´he felt a raindrop on his lips. He licked the delicate droplet´butwait, it wasn't sweetwater, it was salty, it was´a teardrop.
　　He focused on Luke once again, and saw his son was crying. Yes that was it, hewas tasting his boy's grief-because he looked so horrible; because he was sohorrible.
　　But he wanted to make it all right for Luke, he wanted Luke to know he wasn'treally ugly like this, not deep inside, not all together. With a little self-deprecatorysmile, he shook his head at Luke, explaining away the unsightly beast his son saw."Luminous beings are we, Luke-not this crude matter."
　　Luke shook his head, too-to tell his father it was all right, to dismiss the oldman's shame, to tell him nothing mattered now. And everything-but he couldn'ttalk.
　　Vader spoke again, even weaker-almost inaudible. "Go, my son. Leaveme."
　　At that, Luke found his voice. "No. You're coming with me. I'll not leaveyou here. I've got to save you."
　　"You already have, Luke," he whispered. He wished, briefly, he'd met Yoda, tothank the old Jedi for the training he'd given Luke´but perhaps he'd be with Yodasoon, now, in the ethereal oneness of the Force. And with Obi-wan.
　　"Father, I won't leave you," Luke protested. Explosions jarred the docking bayin earnest, crumbling one entire wall, splitting the ceiling. A jet of blue flame shotfrom a gas nozzle nearby. Just beneath it the floor began to melt.
　　Vader pulled Luke very close, spoke into his ear. "Luke, you were right´andyou were right about me´Tell your sister´you were right."
　　With that, he closed his eyes, and Darth Vader-Anakin Skywalker-died.
　　A tremendous explosion filled the back of the bay with fire, knocking Luke flatto the ground. Slowly, he rose again; and like an automaton, stumbled toward one ofthe last remaining shuttles.
　　The Millennium Falcon continued its swerving race through the labyrinth ofpower channels, inching ever-closer to the hub of the giant sphere-the main reactor.The Rebel cruisers were unloading a continuous bombardment on the exposed,unfinished superstructure of the Death Star, now, each hit causing a resonatingshudder in the immense battle station, and a new series of catastrophic events within.
　　Commander Jerjerrod sat, brooding, in the control room of the Death Star,watching all about him crumble. Half of his crew were dead, wounded, or runoff-where they hoped to find sanctuary was unclear, if not insane. The restwandered ineffectually, or railed at the enemy ships, or fired all their guns at allsectors, or shouted orders, or focused desperately on a single task, as if that wouldsave them. Or, like Jerjerrod simply brooded.
　　He couldn't fathom what he'd done wrong. He'd been patient, he'd been loyal,he'd been clever, he'd been hard. He was the commander of the greatest battlestation ever built. Or, at least, almost built. He hated this Rebel Alliance, now,with a child's hate, untempered. He'd loved it once-it had been the small boy hecould bully, the enraged baby animal he could torture. But the boy had grown upnow; it knew how to fight back effectively. It had broken its bonds.
　　Jerjerrod hated it now.
　　Yet there seemed to be little he could do at this point. Except, of course,destroy Endor-he could do that. It was a small act, a token really-to incineratesomething green and living, gratuitously, meanly, toward no end but that of wantondestruction. A small act, but deliciously satisfying.
　　An aide ran up to him. "The Rebel fleet is closing, sir."
　　"Concentrate all fire in that sector," he answered distractedly. A console on thefar wall burst into flame.
　　"The fighters in the superstructure are eluding our defense system, Commander.Shouldn't we-"
　　"Flood sectors 304 and 138. That should slow them up." He arched hiseyebrows at the aide.
　　This made little sense to the aide, who had cause to wonder at the commander'sgrasp of the situation. "But sir´"
　　"What is the rotation factor to firing range on the Endor Moon?"
　　The aide checked the compuscreen. "Point oh two to moon target, sir.Commander, the fleet-"
　　"Accelerate rotation until moon is in range, and then fire on my mark."
　　"Yes, sir." The aide pulled a bank of switches. "Rotation accelerating, sir.Point oh one to moon target, sir. Sixty seconds to firing range. Sir, good-bye, sir."The aide saluted, put the firing switch in Jerjerrod's hand as another explosion shookthe control room, and ran out the door.
　　Jerjerrod smiled calmly at the view-screen. Endor was starting to come out ofthe Death Star's eclipse. He fondled the detonation switch in his hand. Point oh ohfive to moon target. Screams erupted in the next room.
　　Thirty seconds to firing.
　　Lando was homing in on the reactor core shaft. Else only Wedge was left,flying just ahead of him, and Gold Wing, just behind. Several TIE fighters stilltrailed.
　　These central twistings were barely two planes wide, and turned sharply everyfive or ten seconds at the speeds Lando was reaching. Another Imperial jet explodedagainst a wall; another shot down Gold Wing.
　　And then there were two.
　　Lando's tail-gunners kept the remaining TIE fighters jumping in the narrowspace, until at last the main reactor shaft came into view. They'd never seen areactor that awesome.
　　"It's too big, Gold Leader," yelled Wedge. "My proton torpedoes won't evendent that."
　　"Go for the power regulator on the north tower," Lando directed. "I'll take themain reactor. We're carrying concussion missiles-they should penetrate. Once Ilet them go, we won't have much time to get out of here, though."
　　"I'm already on my way out," Wedge exclaimed.
　　He fired his torpedoes with a Corellian war-cry, hitting both sides of the northtower, and peeled off, accelerating.
　　The Falcon waited three dangerous seconds longer, then loosed its concussionmissiles with a powerful roar. For another second the flash was too bright to seewhat had happened. And then the whole reactor began to go.
　　"Direct hit!" shouted Lando. "Now comes the hard part."
　　The shaft was already caving in on top of him, creating a tunnel effect. TheFalcon maneuvered through the twisting outlet, through walls of flame, and throughmoving shafts, always just ahead of the continuing chain of explosions.
　　Wedge tore out of the superstructure at barely sublight speed, whipped aroundthe near side of Endor, and coasted into deep space, slowing slowly in a gentle arc, toreturn to the safety of the moon.
　　A moment later, in a destabilized Imperial shuttle, Luke escaped the maindocking bay, just as that section began to blow apart completely. His wobbling craft,too, headed for the green sanctuary in the near distance.
　　And finally, as if being spit out of the very flames of the conflagration, theMillennium Falcon shot toward Endor, only moments before the Death Star flaredinto brilliant oblivion, like a fulminant supernova.
　　Han was binding Leia's arm-wound in a fern-dell when the Death Star blew. Itcaptured everyone's attention, wherever they happened to be-Ewoks, stormtrooperprisoners, Rebel troops-the final, turbulent, flash of self-destruction, incandescent inthe evening sky. The Rebels cheered.
　　Leia touched Han's cheek. He leaned over, and kissed her; then sat back,seeing her eyes focused on the starry sky.
　　"Hey," he jostled, "I'll bet Luke got off that thing before it blew."
　　She nodded. "He did. I can feel it." Her brother's living presence touchedher, through the Force. She reached out to answer the touch, to reassure Luke shewas all right. Everything was all right.
　　Han looked at her with deep love, special love. For she was a special woman.A princess not by title, but by heart. Her fortitude astounded him, yet she heldherself so lightly. Once, he'd wanted whatever he wanted, for himself, because hewanted it. Now he wanted everything for her. Her everythings. And one thing hecould see she wanted dearly, was Luke.
　　"You really care for him, don't you?"
　　She nodded, scanning the sky. He was alive, Luke was alive. And theother-the Dark One-was dead.
　　"Well, listen," Han went on, "I understand. When he gets back, I won't stand inyour way´"
　　She squinted at him, suddenly aware they were crossing wires, having differentconversations. "What are you talking about?" she said. Then she realized what hewas talking about. "Oh, no. No," she laughed, "it's not like that at all-Luke is mybrother."
　　Han was successively stunned, embarrassed, and elated. This made everythingfine, just fine.
　　He took her in his arms, embraced her, lowered her back down into theferns´and being extra careful of her wounded arm, lay down there beside her, underthe waning glow of the burning Star.
　　Luke stood in a forest clearing before a great pile of logs and branches. Lying,still and robed, atop the mound, was the lifeless body of Darth Vader. Luke set atorch to the kindling.
　　As the flames enveloped the corpse, smoke rose from the vents in the mask,almost like a black spirit, finally freed. Luke stared with a fierce sorrow at theconflagration. Silently, he said his last goodbye. He, alone, had believed in thesmall speck of humanity remaining in his father. That redemption rose, now, withthese flames, into the night.
　　Luke followed the blazing embers as they sailed to the sky. They mixed, there,in his vision, with the fireworks the Rebel fighters were setting off in victorycelebration. And these, in turn, mingled with the bonfires that speckled the woodsand the Ewoks village-fires of elation, of comfort and triumph. He could hear thedrums beating, the music weaving in the firelight, the cheers of brave reunion.Luke's cheer was mute as he gazed into the fires of his own victory and loss.
　　A huge bonfire blazed in the center of the Ewok village square for thecelebration that night. Rebels and Ewoks rejoiced in the warm firelight of the coolevening-singing, dancing, and laughing, in the communal language of liberation.Even Teebo and Artoo had reconciled, and were doing a little jig together, as othersclapped in time to the music. Threepio, his regal days in this village over, wascontent to sit near the spinning little droid who was his best friend in the universe.He thanked the Maker that Captain Solo had been able to fix Artoo, not to mentionMistress Leia-for a man without protocol, Solo did have his moments. And hethanked the Maker this bloody war was over.
　　The prisoners had been sent on shuttles to what was left of the ImperialFleet-the Rebel Star Cruisers were dealing with all that. Up there, somewhere.The Death Star had burned itself out.
　　Han, Leia, and Chewbacca stood off a short way from the revelers. Theystayed close to each other, not talking; periodically glancing at the path that led intothe village. Half waiting, half trying not to wait; unable to do anything else.
　　Until, at last, their patience was rewarded: Luke and Lando, exhausted, into thelight. The friends rushed to greet them. They all embraced, cheered, jumped about,fell over, and finally just huddled, still wordless, content with the comfort of eachother's touch.
　　In a while, the two droids sidled over as well, to stand beside their dearestcomrades.
　　The fuzzy Ewoks continued in wild jubilation, far into the night, while this smallcompany of gallant adventurers watched on from the sidelines.
　　For an evanescent moment, looking into the bonfire, Luke thought he saw facesdancing-Yoda, Ben; was it his father? He drew away from his companions, to tryto see what the faces were saying; they were ephemeral, and spoke only to theshadows of the flames, and then disappeared altogether.
　　It gave Luke a momentary sadness but then Leia took his hand, and drew himback close to her and to the others, back into their circle of warmth, and camaraderie;and love.
　　The Empire was dead.
　　Long live the Alliance.

LastIndex

? Georgelucas




 
     

Content
A  New  Hope 
PrologueIIIIIIIV
VVIVIIVIIIIX
XXIXIIXIII　 
The  Empire  Strikes  Back 
IIIIIIIVV
VIVIIVIIIIXX
XIXIIXIIIXIV　 
Return  of  The  Jedi 
PrologueIIIIIIIV
VVIVIIVIIIIX

About This Book

? Georgelucas




 
  